---
title: <% tp.file.title %>
draft: false
tags:
---

<div class="bg-secondary">
<h1 class="py-5 ms-3 ms-md-4 my-0">The Mental Game</h1>
</div>
<div class="d-flex align-items-center flex-wrap text-muted ps-3 ps-md-4 py-3 border-top border-bottom">
<div class="border-end pe-3 me-3">
<span class="badge bg-faded-primary text-primary">
Trade Management </span>
</div>
<div class="fs-sm pe-3 border-end me-3">31 min read</div>
<div class="fs-sm">
2024-08-26 </div>
</div>
<section class="px-3 px-md-4 py-4">
<h4 class="wp-block-heading">Your mental and emotional state have a large impact on your trading. My experience is that this all boils down to confidence and you get it through experience and hard work.</h4>
<hr class="wp-block-separator has-alpha-channel-opacity">
<p>Let me start by saying that my understanding of the human mind is limited to a Psych 101 class I took in college. There are many people who struggle with deep seated mental and emotional issues. I have not personally dealt with these challenges and I am not qualified to address them. If you are going to trade for a living, you need to be mentally and emotionally stable so, I urge all of you to get to that place before you start. Your fortitude is going to be tested constantly.</p>
<div style="height:13px" aria-hidden="true" class="wp-block-spacer"></div>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Stay_Sharp">Stay Sharp</h2>
<p>I haven’t traded “high”, but I have traded with a massive hangover and I do not recommend it. You need to be mentally sharp and you need an acute sense of awareness. Drugs and alcohol impair your thinking. Studies have shown that exercise releases endorphins. I don’t care about the scientific explanations, I just know that when I start my day with a workout or a walk, by the time I am finished, I am ready to trade. I feel good about myself and I’ve had time to wake up. I am alert! I also start preparing for the trading day hours before the open. I scour the news and I start game planning.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Limit_Your_Distractions">Limit Your Distractions</h2>
<p>You can’t focus when you have chaos around you. Find a quiet space and make it your own. “When “daddy” is in his office, we don’t bother him.” Many of you are trying to trade while you are working a full-time job and that is extremely difficult. At any moment you can be called into a meeting or you have to take an important call. When you hang up the phone, your position has gone to @#$% because you were not able to monitor it. This is extremely frustrating. Some of you are primary care providers for someone who is ill. That is physically and emotionally draining and there is nothing “left in the tank” for trading. You need to structure your life around trading and it needs to be your priority. Find your “space,” hire a caregiver, work “second shift”… do whatever it takes to remove these distractions. Without complete focus, you will not get over the “emotional hump.” Contrary to what you might have read or heard, trading is not a way to “make a little extra money.” This is a profession and if you can’t give it 100%, your chances of success are slim and your chances of losing money are high.</p>
<p>You are mentally alert, you are in your quiet space with more than an hour of time before the market opens and all of the potential distractions have been removed. For the rest of the article, we are going to talk about the emotional side of trading itself. </p>
<p>I’ve had the opportunity to observe thousands of traders over my career and I’ve been on the “emotional roller coaster” myself. Every person is different so I won’t speak in absolutes. Here’s what I’ve learned. </p>
<p>Like most traders, I’ve read books on the mental aspect of trading. Many people find them extremely useful, I have not. When I start reading about how we are all conditioned to “win” and how this dates back to cavemen needing to “win” for survival, I immediately tune out. It might be true, but that does not mean the information is useful to me. I already know I want to win and I know I need to make money to pay the bills. After reading these books I did not become a better trader and it did not reveal a missing element that was secretly sabotaging my trading. My self-awareness of the mental issues that were keeping me back did not come to light from a book and turn my win rate around. There is no harm in reading these books. They did not help me, but perhaps they will help you. </p>
<p>“Well la-di-da, I guess Pete didn’t have any emotional issues when he was trading.” Wrong! I’ve had plenty of them and I have recorded <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aBLe7hxi9v0" target="_blank" rel="noopener">videos about the day trading journey</a> I bared it all in a cover story for Active Trader Magazine in September 2006 called <a href="https://oneoption.com/general/all-in-committing-to-full-time-trading/">“All In.”</a> Here’s what I’ve learned, observed and personally experienced. I’m not going to get into the theories about why we do the things we do. Instead, these tactics are actionable and you can incorporate them into your trading. They address a variety of emotional issues inherent to trading. </p>
<p>Let’s talk about some of the basic problems and then conclude with my solutions. The need to win is extremely important because it is positive reinforcement. That which gives us pleasure we tend to repeat and that which gives us pain we avoid. Trading is black and white. You either make money or you lose money. It has been my experience that your mind needs many more positive outcomes than negative ones and a ratio of 3:1 or higher (75% win rate) fosters a positive mental attitude. When my win rate is 50%, I am not as mentally fit because half of the trades don’t work out. Even if the winners are much bigger than the losers, there is a 50% chance that I am going to experience pain. This is such a basic concept that is seems silly to even write about it, but it shocks me how many people ignore the importance of a high win rate. By the way, even with a 75% win rate, your winners still have to be much bigger than your losers. </p>
<div style="height:11px" aria-hidden="true" class="wp-block-spacer"></div>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Confidence">Confidence</h2>
<p>The biggest mental block I had to deal with was confidence. When I started trading professionally in 2002, I didn’t know what I was doing. I had been involved in floor operations on the options exchanges for the previous 15 years. I was in the business, but those skills were not transferable. Would I be able to find a systematic trading approach that worked? How would I find it? Would I know how to refine it? What edge would this system provide? How long would it be before I was profitable? Could I support my family until I got to that point? If someone had provided me with a blueprint of how to do this and if I witnessed others having success with the system, I would have had very little doubt that I would be able to learn it and master it. If it took 80 hours a week for many years, no problem, I was determined. Unfortunately, such a system did not exist… at least not one that anyone would share with with me.</p>
<p>When people go to college or a trade school they are learning skills that should land a good paying job. Their education will often yield transferable knowledge that can be applied in various jobs. There are no guarantees, but the odds of the education paying off are fairly high. Aspiring professional athletes, artists and traders don’t get paid while they are training and there is no guarantee that the time and effort they put in is going to pay off. The skills they develop are not transferable. This is a large risk to take and there is no shortage of people who will discourage you from taking this path. For traders, failure means you will lose your hard earned money and when you “call it quits” you will have to admit defeat and face embarrassment. This adds to the pressure and all eyes are on you. There was a “dark period” when I started as a pro. I was struggling and my family and friends knew it. I couldn’t talk about my career or how it was going. I was isolated and I felt like I was on an island by myself. My capital was slipping away. I was learning and I felt like I was making progress, but I didn’t have anything to show for it. </p>
<p>I had to break the negative feedback loop I was trapped in. It was not a matter of will or mental fortitude, it was a matter of finding the right set-ups and the right system. Much like an athlete watches game film, I reviewed and studied my trade logs. I learned valuable lessons from each mistake and I devised ways to avoid those pitfalls in the future. I also learned the patterns that I had the greatest success with and I discovered the importance of market first and the advantages of trading stocks with relative strength. The course you are reading right now is the end result and I hope that this blueprint helps you avoid some of the mental anguish I went through. </p>
<p>It took years for all of the puzzle pieces to reveal themselves and I am still finding new pieces. Figuring out how to put those pieces together takes time. I started to develop a systematic decision making process and my confidence was growing. Once I reached this stage it was a matter of refining and repeating. At this point, you know the system and you know it works. Now it is just a matter of following it and not letting yourself stray. You also know that you will be able to pay your bills and that doing this professionally is viable. Instead of feeling like an idiot for pursuing your passion, you are proud of your decision. My emotions were raw until I got to this point, and now that I was getting positive results, it was no longer a matter of “will I figure this out,” it was a matter of “stop doing stupid shit.” To this point, mistakes were a matter of ignorance and they were not caused by my mental state. My confidence to this point was low because I still did not have all of the puzzle pieces and the odds of taking a loss on a trade were high. </p>
<div style="height:12px" aria-hidden="true" class="wp-block-spacer"></div>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Common_Mistakes">Common Mistakes</h2>
<p>This is a well documented trading system, but I still have to deal with the same day-to-day issues we all have. Take inventory and know your detrimental personality traits. Then, build safe guards into your decision making so that you can avoid common mistakes. Here are some examples. </p>
<h3 class="wp-block-heading">Enter Well</h3>
<p>I am a stickler for good entries. That means I miss a lot of good trades, but it also means I avoid big losers. The pattern has to be perfect and ALL of the checkboxes have to be marked. I am not going into detail about those because they are in this course. For me, trading is all about control and awareness. The awareness comes from preparation and until you enter the trade, you are in control. If you are less confident in the trade, take a small starter position and add on confirmation. That means only adding to winners. This is critically important. When I add to a winner, my average cost is lower than the current price if (I am buying). That means I have cushion in the trade and in a worst case scenario I am able to exit at my average cost and scratch the trade. I don’t place stops at my entry price, but knowing that I could gives me comfort. I have limited downside and unlimited upside. This is what we strive for in every trade. When I take a starter position and it is a loser, my losses are minor and I can contain my emotions. My entry is not ideal and I will let the stock move around until it proves me wrong. I am also looking for something that I might have missed. The bottom line is that I am not as confident in the trade as I was when I entered it. The last thing I want to do is to add to a losing position. When I do that I am losing control and my average cost is higher than the current price of the stock. My confidence is poor and my risk exposure (pain) is higher. When I enter well, the position performs right away. I have cushion in the trade, my confidence is high and I feel good that it is performing as I expected. When you become a seasoned trader, there will be times when you have to “size up” and your entry is critically important. The odds are very high and all of the checkboxes are marked. Your risk exposure is elevated and it is critically important that you enter well. That “cushion“ when the trade is performing right away will give you the confidence you need to ride it higher. Some traders will ask, “How did you have the “guts” to trade that size?” The answer is… enter well. When the trade performs right away, you don’t need “guts.” Your mindset quickly shifts from risk management to profit management and your emotions are not a factor. </p>
<h3 class="wp-block-heading">Be Patient</h3>
<p>This is something that many novice traders can’t master and it is not something I can teach. The market opens and they want to shoot at anything that moves. We don’t know what the market is going to do or what the stock is going to do in the first 45 minutes of trading and we don’t know what the market is going to do. If a stock is breakout through D1 resistance on heavy volume, how do we know the move is going to hold during the day? We don’t! The breakout could be a giant head fake and until we see how the stock closes that day, the breakout has not been confirmed. Even then, we need follow through. The breakout gets the stock on our radar, but the follow through is where we make money. Pretend that you are an archer and that there are a dozen hoops that are in constant motion. The goal is to shoot through all of the hoops with one arrow. The windows of opportunity don’t come along very often so you have to be patient. If the arrow passes through 11 of the hoops, you fail. That is how trading windows work. The market D1, the market M5, the stock D1, the stock M5, RS/RW D1, RS/RW M5, heavy volume, D1 technical breakout above resistance, M5 &gt; VWAP. M5 &gt; prior day high… All of the hoops have to be aligned. I call them checkboxes and there are many. Just before you click the buy button, ask yourself, “Why now?” What is it about this very moment that makes this the perfect entry? Can you wait 10 minutes? Often times you can wait and that slight delay prevented you from relinquishing control and the backdrop looks much different. If a stock you have been tracking for a swing trade gaps higher the next day, ask yourself, “Why is the company worth so much more overnight? Was there material news or is this just technically based? Remind yourself that there will always be another trade. Just because you missed one good entry, there will be other good entry points for the same stock or you might find other stocks you like even better. </p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Don’t Look</h5>
<p>Novice traders will always hawk their P&amp;L. That is going to elevate your emotions. Watch the chart and the price action. That is all you need to watch. As long as the market and the stock are performing, you don’t have to worry about how much you are making or losing. Set alerts at key price points and you don’t have to watch the stock. When action is required, you will get an alert. A big winner will tempt you to take profits too early because you are worried that you will give it all back. There might still be plenty of upside to the trade. If the market and the stock are not behaving, know when it’s time to exit. The decision is part of your game plan before you enter the trade and it is black and white. If you are looking at your P&amp;L, you might stay in the trade too long because you can’t stomach taking the loss and “hope” will enter the equation. By the way, “hope” is not a trading strategy.</p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">“FOMO Joe”</h5>
<p>These traders are impulsive and greedy. They can’t stand the thought of missing out on the next big winner. They don’t wait for all of the checkboxes to line up, they just fire and then they look for reasons to justify the trade. While they are conducting research to defend the trade, the bottom falls out and now they have a big loser on their hands. Greed has been replaced by fear and they are ashamed that… “they did it again.” Here is the cure for these suffers. The next time you want to click the buy button, click the alert button instead. Never buy the high on what ever time frame you are trading. Set an alert at the low of a nearby candle. This is how you can monitor the stock without taking a position. You have no emotional attachment to it. “FOMO Joe” is not going to be chasing a flat stock, he is going to be in a stock that is stacking green candles. You will be shocked that the vast majority of stocks pullback. When you get the alert, you will find that the stock has lost its luster. I’ve created alerts that allow Option Stalker Pro users to easily buy dips. There are many variables that can be selected across any time frame. For instance, the stock will have relative strength M5 currently. When we select this variable and we assign a bullish value, our servers know the current state of the variable. If it is bearish, it just has to go bullish. If it is currently bullish, it has to go relatively weak and then relatively strong M5 for the alert to trigger. When the alert is triggered you evaluate the depth and duration of the dip. If it was brief and shallow without any long red candles and if VWAP was preserved, the stock is likely to go higher and we have an excellent entry point. Often, these “darlings” will turn into “dogs” and you will be happy you never took the trade. You have complete control and you are not chasing. That time gives you an opportunity to evaluate other stocks and general market conditions. “FOMO Joe” has visions of grandeur early in the day. At the end of the day he looks at bullish searches and he thinks about all of the money he could have made if he bought that stock at the start of the day. He won’t miss that opportunity tomorrow. What he fails to understand is that bullish searches are going to show the best performers at the top. If he looks closely, he would notice that they all have dips. Missing from his evaluation are all the stocks that were at the top of the search early in the day and that are no longer on the search because they reversed. Most stocks did not stay on that search all day, but the best ones did. Don’t be “FOMO Joe.” Hasty decisions are rarely good. </p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Don’t Trade The Open</h5>
<p>I’ve already discussed this, but it is such an important concept that I am going to keep hammering it home. The open is for amateurs and the close is for pros. For those traders who swing overnight, you buy in the afternoon when you have technical confirmation for the stock and the market. The next morning the stock shoots higher, options IVs are elevated and the stock is stacking “greens.” You are taking gains into strength and you are selling to “FOMO Joe.” The stock is on his radar from the day before. It is stacking “greens” early and he can’t resist temptation. The first 45 minutes are for data collection. You are going to evaluate the market and you are going to look for stocks that might be of interest. You will gather valuable information and you wait for the checkboxes to line up. </p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Overconfidence</h5>
<p>The market doesn’t go straight up or straight down. When you have a great run, take some money out of the account. That will make you feel good. I act as if I just took a loss. It will keep my ego in check and I will “reset.” My biggest losses have come after my biggest gains because I am over-confident. The reality is that I caught the right conditions and I “sized up.” The odds of those conditions continuing is slim and the market is likely to rest. This trap causes psychological damage because you just gave back a lot of what you made. My biggest gains have come after my biggest losses. I am mentally “grounded” because I was humbled and I have to get back to basics. It doesn’t matter where you put that money, just act as though you lost it if you sense that you are over-confident. I like to set it aside for the taxes I will have to pay. </p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">I Can Always Get Back In</h5>
<p>This is one of the most important concepts when it comes to taking losses. No one wants to lose money so stop looking at a bad trade like it was a bad decision. You aren’t a loser, your entry was off. From the time you enter the stock, you can see that it is not behaving as you expected. In time you have evidence that it is heading lower. Any fool can see the selling pressure, so get out. You can see that the stock might still have considerable downside. Are you really going to let it fall all that way and still feel good about it? What kind of mental strain is that going to put on you? If the stock does fall to that level, think of how much better your entry will be. Exit the stock and place an alert at your exit price so that you can get back in where you exited. You can also set alerts to buy dips and I mentioned how to do that earlier. You evaluate the depth and duration of the dip and you determine if the stock marks all of the checkboxes. Many of the stocks you took a loss on will rebound and you will have a great entry point. Some of them will never recover and you will be glad that you are out. While you were waiting for the stock to recover, you might have found other opportunities that were much better. You have alerts set and it is out of sight and out of mind. Hanging on to “dogs” that never come back does psychological damage and you are reminded of your poor decision(s) every time you look at your positions. Notice the positive spin that you have put on a losing trade. You are not a loser and you did not lose money… because you are going to enter at a lower price. Your analysis was not flawed and this is still a solid stock. When you re-enter, you will buy it back right where you got out. You will free up your capital and you will be properly managing risk. If you set alerts to buy dips, you can make even more money because it will be at a lower level. At the end of the day, you want to review the original entry to see if you missed something.</p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Time Stops</h5>
<p>Before you enter a trade, you should define a performance timeline. “I am expecting this bullish SPY 1OP cycle to produce in the next 20 minutes and when it does the stock will rally.” If 20 minutes have passed and the market has performed, but the stock has not, consider scratching the trade. The relative strength you expected did not materialized and every minute you stay in the trade, your odds get closer to 50:50. That is not an attractive risk/reward profile. If the stock has performed, but the market has not, you have some cushion since the trade is making money. You are in profit management mode, but you are aware that you don’t have the market tailwind that you were expecting so the trade is less attractive and you have to monitor it closely. This approach will “keep you honest.” You expected an outcome in a specified period of time and it did not happen. You have an opportunity to exit and not lose money. Set alerts so that if the stock starts to perform you can consider re-entry. This will allow you to search for better opportunities and it will be one less position you have to monitor, You did not lose money so this is a neutral outcome. It does not help or hurt your psyche and I don’t count scratches.</p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Anticipate LPTEs</h5>
<p>We’ve talked about “inside days,” pre-holiday trading conditions, pauses after big moves and pending news like the FOMC. As we are evaluating the action during the first 45 minutes, our expectations for a low probability trading environment (LPTE) are confirmed by mixed overlapping candles with long tails and wicks on light volume. You have worked hard to make money and if you don’t adjust your trading, you will piss your gains away very quickly. Nice little breakouts will look great and the stock will be on your radar. You need follow through and as soon as you enter, the stock reverses. You will “leak oil” the entire day and you will be angry with yourself because you should have known better. </p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Junior Analyst</h5>
<p>Stop thinking that you know more than the large institutions. If you ignore the news and if you ignore what others have to say, you will be much better off. Just follow price. Like most people, I consider myself to be fairly intelligent. My trading improved the moment I stopped conducting fundamental analysis. I’ve convinced myself that I don’t know shit and that I just need to follow price. People with large egos have a very hard time with this concept. They are not as smart as they think they are and they are going to get humbled. Some of them will come around to just following price, but the vast majority of them will give up. They will take massive losses because they think that eventually the market will “get it right.” Some will even add to losing positions. When they fail, they will conclude that the market is random and that no one can make sense of it. </p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Second Chance</h5>
<p>There will always be a second chance to enter a great trade that you missed initially. If the stock is as strong as you think it is, there will be a dip. That dip will be brief and shallow, and you will have additional confirmation that it is going higher. </p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Be The Second Mouse</h5>
<p>We all know what happens to the first mouse. Don’t anticipate how a candle is going to finish, let it complete. The current bar will often look very different when it completes. If there is a breakout, wait for confirmation. Don’t expect that you are going to have follow through. Some of these breakouts will be head fakes to trigger buy stops. If the market looks like a top if forming, be aware of the patterns that are consistent with a trend reversal, but don’t act until you see a lower high double top. That is the confirmation of resistance that you need. After a strong rally that went higher than anyone could have expected will attract short sellers. The first drop looks impressive and they are excited by the notion that they are going to make a killing on the way down. They load up on puts and then the market bounces. The buyers who fueled the rally are looking to buy dips. If they are aggressive, that dip could result in a bullish flag and the market is going to rocket to a new relative high. If the market does not make a new high, resistance is confirmed. Then and only then can you start considering shorts. So many traders try to pick bottoms and tops and they are squashed like little bugs.</p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Why Now?</h5>
<p>Can this day trade wait 10 minutes? Can this swing trade wait and extra day? Why is this the ideal moment to enter the trade? These are the questions you should be asking yourself for every trade. List your reasons and make sure they are valid. When possible, afford yourself the extra time.</p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Stay Balanced</h5>
<p>Often, traders will focus on a good outcome. When they enter a trade they are only focused on how much they will make and they are motivated by greed. The position does not “behave” and the focus shifts to fear. You should have seen “both sides of the coin” before you entered. The opposite is also true, but it is less common. Some traders suffer from “paralysis from analysis.” They can’t pull the trigger because they are afraid they will lose money. The stock takes off without them, fear turns into greed and they chase the move. If they would have entered with a starter position initially, they would have cushion and their fear would be minimal since they are in profit management mode. </p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Context</h5>
<p>This is an important psychological concept and I am going to discuss it in great detail in another article. How we get from point A to point B matters. We analyze the price action and we develop our game plan around it. This is the source of our confidence. How can I be so sure this rally is going to continue? In that article I will explain how.</p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Motives</h5>
<p>Why did you start trading? The answer to this question will often determine your mental state. There is only one right answer in my opinion. You’ve been introduced to trading and you have an insatiable appetite to learn more. This is your passion and you will spend every waking hour to master it. If you are learning how to trade because you want to make a lot of money or you just need “some extra cash”, you are not going to put in the required time. Don’t start trading because you hate your current job. When you start losing money, you will hate this profession even more. Trading is not as glamorous as it is made out to be. It requires an extreme amount of dedication and there is no easy path. Money is a strong motivator and most people have unrealistic expectations of how much they will make and how hard they will have to work. </p>
<h5 class="wp-block-heading">Personality Flaws</h5>
<p>Some people are not well-suited for trading. The person who can’t admit when they are wrong will struggle because they can’t take losses. These people are intelligent and they are usually right. They will try to impose their will on the market and they will dollar cost average a losing position. All of their analysis can’t be wrong, it’s just not possible. The trade simply needs more time. This is a continual cleansing process and you need to admit when you are wrong. Then there is the compulsive liar. You can bullshit other people, but you can’t bullshit the market. These are the folks who tout their winners and you never hear about their losers. In time, you won’t hear about any of their trades because the trader won’t be around. The thrill seeker who needs an adrenaline rush will take unnecessary risks. Trading should not be exciting. This is calculated risk taking and we only trade when our odds of a positive outcome are greater than 75%. The margin of error is razor thin and you can’t be impulsive. You can never compromise when it comes to checkboxes. If conditions don’t line up, you don’t take the trade. Some people feel entitled. If they “put the time in,” they feel like they deserve a reward. There are no participation prizes for trading. These folks will complain that “the game is rigged” and that it’s not fair. They will never take responsibility for their actions and their losses will always result from outside forces “beyond their control.” I would argue that trading is extremely fair. Price is truth and we all have access to it. Your race, religion, sex, nationality, height, weight, social status or educational background won’t prevent you from being successful. If you have these personality traits, you need to address them. They are obstacles that will prevent you from becoming a successful trader. </p>
<div style="height:21px" aria-hidden="true" class="wp-block-spacer"></div>
<h3 class="wp-block-heading">Conclusion</h3>
<p>Let’s conclude with a solution that removes the mental issues. Only a tiny fraction of traders will follow this advice. The first step is to gather information just like you are doing now. Once you learn how difficult this profession is, you will appreciate the education, the training and the dedication that are required. You will be properly grounded and you will be ready to take the next step. Regardless if it is my system or another, verify results before you take the next step. P&amp;Ls can be photo shopped. Trust what you see real-time and not what you hear or read. When possible, talk to other traders who have learned the system and who are trading it. It is critically important that the system works and that it can be learned and replicated. The system needs to be well-documented and it needs to resonate with you. There is a lot of crap being peddled so do your due diligence. A trading system must have an edge and there is a decision making process that exploits that edge. You are going to spend the next 2-4 years learning this system and it is going to be like a 4-year degree. College students don’t get paid when they are learning. You won’t get paid either, but if you follow my suggestion, you will keep your tuition low and you will not be an emotional train wreck. You can start with paper trading, but I feel that trading 1 share of stock (no options) carries more weight because you actually have “skin in the game.” You are also getting real fills. There will be many mistakes along the way, but your risk will be low since your trades are very small. This approach will take the emotions out of trading because you will be able to shoulder loses while you train. The goal is to have a 75% win rate for 3 consecutive months. If you are sloppy, you will never get your win rate up. For someone with very little trading experience, this could take 3-4 years. Aspiring traders that have some experience might be able to get to a 75% win rate in two years. Seasoned traders with previous marginal success can learn this system in a year or less. They have all of the technical skills and they are disciplined or they would not have lasted this long. A proven “edge” and a systematic decision making process gives them the structure they needed and they can pick this up quickly. The 75% win rate is hard to reach and it will take time. Along the way there will be set backs. Embrace them and learn from them, they are part of the process. If you are learning during a bear market, the journey will be harder, but you will learn valuable lessons. Don’t get discouraged. There will be times when you feel like you are regressing. Know that when you look back at the end of the year you will be amazed by how much you have learned. When you start hitting the 75% win rate, all of the pieces will start to come together and you will have clarity. Each trade requires scrutiny and you need to learn from it. Keeping and reviewing <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5q0-_yM5pFk" target="_blank" rel="noopener">trade logs</a> is critically important. This is not the end of the journey, it is the starting point for your career as a professional trader. Now you are ready to gradually start increasing your trading size. You will hone your skills through repetition and you will refine, refine, refine. Your arms have encircled the beast we call trading and you will strengthen your grip on it. In time you will be ringing every drop of water out of it. </p>
<p>You keep your emotions in check through confidence and confidence comes with experience. Find a trading system that is proven and well-documented. Start slowly and trade small size while you are learning. Keep detailed trade logs and build in the safe guards I’ve mentioned. Get you win rate to 75% and gradually scale up. In time, chaos will turn into clarity. Then it’s a matter of discipline (avoiding stupid mistakes) and refinement. </p>
</section>
