---
title: <% tp.file.title %>
draft: false
tags:
---

<div class="bg-secondary">
<h1 class="py-5 ms-3 ms-md-4 my-0">Why I No Longer Post Trades</h1>
</div>
<div class="d-flex align-items-center flex-wrap text-muted ps-3 ps-md-4 py-3 border-top border-bottom">
<div class="border-end pe-3 me-3">
<span class="badge bg-faded-primary text-primary">
Trade Management </span>
</div>
<div class="fs-sm pe-3 border-end me-3">5 min read</div>
<div class="fs-sm">
2024-05-07 </div>
</div>
<section class="px-3 px-md-4 py-4">
<h4 class="wp-block-heading">The downside risks of posting a track record are too high and I am focusing my efforts on education and new features that will help us find the best stocks.</h4>
<hr class="wp-block-separator has-alpha-channel-opacity">
<p>If you are a successful trader, you keep to yourself and you focus your efforts on trading. You don’t need the headaches that come with posting trades. There is very little upside and lots of downside. 95% of the self-proclaimed “gurus” are fake. People are skeptical… and rightfully so. First you have to do cartwheels to prove that you are in the 5% who legitimately want to help others and who can actually trade. That means taking a bunch of crap from people who want to discredit you. This is the first hurdle and it is a tall one. We all have egos and it is hard to take unwarranted criticism. When you post trades, you have to answer constant questions about every trade. Why did you get in? Why did you get out? How did you size the trade? This consumes so much time and energy and that effort could be spent finding new trades. Next you have the “swing for the fence” follower who blows out and who threatens to sue you or worse. Again, you are having to defend yourself. These are enough reasons not to post trades publicly, but there is another issue. I’ve did this for 15 years and I no longer have the fortitude to do it.</p>
<p>This industry is highly regulated. The SEC wants to control everyone. If you are registered (licensed) with the SEC, every public statement you make that is trade related has to be approved by a Compliance Officer. That takes an extreme amount of time and effort and almost all Compliance Officers error on the side of not approving trade related statements. That means that the statements are not timely (for day trading or short-term swing trading). When I let all of my registrations lapse, I promised myself I would never be regulated again. I’ve been in this industry a very long time and you can’t win against the regulators. <strong>They will “hang you.”</strong> In 2002, I ran an advertisement for the brokerage firm I was the SVP for and I used that exact quote from the SEC Chairman (Arthur Levitt) in the ad. He said, “95% off all trades are not routed to the best price.” The NASD still fined us for false advertising specifically for using that statement.</p>
<p>Newsletter writers are exempt from being registered. They do not know anyone’s financial situation, they do not know anyone’s suitability and they do not make recommendations to any individual. They simply make generic statements to the public. It is very important to keep all of these elements intact because the regulators will come sniffing and when they do, they will hang you on this. This exemption for publishers was fiercely defended in court by the WSJ and Barron’s many years ago and it is why they can make statements about stocks to buy and sell. This bothers the hell out of regulators. They have a “bur under their saddle” for newsletter writers. They can’t destroy you for posting “unapproved” trades, but they can find other ways to drag you through the courts and to financially/mentally destroy you. If you get big enough (followers), you are on their radar. Once that happens, they start digging. The first thing they will try to hang you on is false advertising or false statements on your website. I support this because 95% of the stuff you see is fake… so hang those bastards. I don’t advertise. Next they will go over published track records. Warrior Trading posted actually brokerage statements and they still had an issue with it.&nbsp;<a href="https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2023/01/ftc-returns-more-29-million-consumers-harmed-warrior-trading" target="_blank" rel="noopener">They got sued for $3 million</a>&nbsp;by the FTC because people who went through the course lost money and Warrior Trading needed to state that Ross was a pro and that people might not be able to achieve those results. If they can’t get you there, they will get you for front running trades (pump and dump). You post your trades real-time and then followers enter. That pushes the price higher and you exit when they are getting in. If you are in an illiquid stock or almost any option, this would qualify.</p>
<p>I used to post trades, but I do not any longer. Part of that is because I am focused on completing The System and adding new features to Option Stalker Pro. Much of that decision is related to the risk of posting trades. If I look at what would destroy me personally, a lawsuit that questions my integrity is the greatest threat. Even if I win the suit, that would come at an extreme cost and it would exhaust me mentally. This is also why I recently beefed up my disclaimers on the website and the chat room.</p>
<p>I just don’t need that in my life as I wind my career down. I’ve already proven my ability to trade to the most important person – myself. Those who want to believe that I can trade and that the system has merit will learn it and follow it. Those who don’t choose to believe can find a “guru” and sue them when things go south. I believe that when someone learns The System their odds of success increase dramatically. That still does not guarantee success and I try to convey how difficult this is to master. I hope you understand why I no longer post trades. My goal at this stage is to simplify my life, not complicate it. I still want to help all of you. I am busy with projects that will help you learn The System and with new features that will help you find the best stocks and the downside risks of posting trades/track records is just too high.</p>
</section>
