---
title: <% tp.file.title %>
draft: false
tags:
---

<div class="bg-secondary">
<h1 class="py-5 ms-3 ms-md-4 my-0">Your Trade Management Report Card</h1>
</div>
<div class="d-flex align-items-center flex-wrap text-muted ps-3 ps-md-4 py-3 border-top border-bottom">
<div class="border-end pe-3 me-3">
<span class="badge bg-faded-primary text-primary">
Trade Management </span>
</div>
<div class="fs-sm pe-3 border-end me-3">19 min read</div>
<div class="fs-sm">
2024-05-07 </div>
</div>
<section class="px-3 px-md-4 py-4">
<h4 class="wp-block-heading">It’s important to know how well you are managing your entries and exits. Daily logs will provide you with valuable information so that you can make steady progress. </h4>
<hr class="wp-block-separator has-alpha-channel-opacity">
<p>Trading is a profession where we get constant feedback both positive and negative. From the moment we enter a position, it is either making money or it is losing money. Our emotions are running high and those early feelings are often misleading. Trades that are working out immediately often sour and trades that look ugly initially turn around quickly. That’s why it is best not to look at your P&amp;L when you are trading. Just look at the chart and focus on your game plan. When the dust settles and you exit the trade, you can calmly evaluate what you did well, what you did poorly and what you can improve on. Your trade log is the most valuable piece of information you have. </p>
<p>Unfortunately, our days are long and by the time the closing bell rings, we are tired. We put so much into our trading day that we are exhausted and hungry. Take a nice long walk, get some fresh air and grab a bite to eat. Your day is not done. Make sure you spend an hour reviewing your trades and writing your trade log. The information is still fresh in your mind and you won’t be able to remember your thoughts and your game plan a few days later. </p>
<p>Trade logs can be handwritten, or trades can be downloaded and annotated in software programs. My career started at a time when people still drew trendlines by hand on a physical chart. I know this sounds crazy, but people used to also buy shares of stock and they would take physical delivery of the certificates and keep them in a safe. When I went Pro in 2002, I wrote trade logs and they were similar to a daily diary. I thought I knew what I was doing, but I had no clue. Little-by-little the pieces of the puzzle revealed themselves and they resulted in the trading system you are learning now. Handwritten trade logs are detailed and incredibly helpful. They are essential for beginning traders. You are in “hope and poke” mode when you start and you need all of the details that went into your decision. Written trade logs are also a must for intermediate traders who are testing new methods and developing new approaches. I still use them when I am developing and testing a new search, system or feature for my trading platform. You need this granularity and you just won’t get that in a software program. </p>
<p>I could go through each of those lessons from the last 20 years one-by-one, but I’ve already done that in this course. At one point in my career my name was “FOMO Joe.”<em> </em>I’ve chased my fair share of “hot stocks” on the open and I’ve been humbled. Now I know better and I am more likely to fade those moves than I am to join them. I have an MBA and I consider myself to have above average intelligence. Of course I’ve played “Jr. Analyst.” In time, I came to realize that I don’t know shit and neither do the “talking heads” on the financial news networks. That’s when I realized that I don’t need to analyze fundamentals; price is truth. I’ve bought a long green breakout bar to a new high of the day and I’ve had the door slammed in my face. Now I realize that I have to wait for follow through. If that move instantly reverses, I know it was an attempt to trigger buy stops and to lure in bullish speculators. Now I know the games institutions play and I use that knowledge to make money. My written trade logs revealed all of this information and none of it would have come to me if I just used a software program.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Your_Trade_Logs_Have_The_Answers">Your Trade Logs Have The Answers</h2>
<p>If I’ve come across as a “know it all genius” that’s never made a mistake, let me put that notion to rest. I hope you find the content in this course to be truly unique. These are not lessons I’ve read about. These are the lessons I’ve learned firsthand during my journey. They’ve cost me hundreds of thousands of dollars and I’m trying to help you avoid these mistakes. My daily written trade logs were the source of <strong>ALL</strong> of the information in this course. Do I think written trade logs are important? Heck yes! They are the most important thing you can do. </p>
<p>When you start trading, everything is random. You don’t know where to start so you read a bunch of books. They show you some helpful technical patterns and it all seems so straight forward and easy. When you try to put these lessons into action, everything turns into garbage. Things that I read in a book were different in real-time. It was hard to find these picture-perfect setups I had read about and they never played out when I did find them. Reality was much different than theory and I quickly realized that anyone can go back and find the perfect pattern and then write about it. Many of these breakouts that looked just like the ones in the book “blew up.”</p>
<p>Eventually, my trade logs revealed some of the big puzzle pieces. Market first, use technical analysis, don’t rely on fundamental analysis, the characteristics of a strong trend… At this stage I was getting my arms around trading. In the next stage, I learned how to schedule my trading around major news events. This only came after getting blindsided a few times. By the way, lessons learned from mistakes are much more meaningful because you lose money. Get angry when you write your logs. Keep the wound fresh and rub some salt in it so that you don’t repeat it. When you go back and read it you will relive the frustration and that’s healthy. My logs were becoming more useful because I understood what I was doing right and what I was doing wrong. I came to realize that my stock trades where the stock was strong relative to the market performed better than my S&amp;P 500 trades. There was a “cushion” or an “edge.” Perhaps I should trade the stock instead and treat it as a surrogate market position. I also dedicated myself to reading price action. Every single indicator lag, but price action is real-time. How we get from point A to point B matters. At this stage, I had my hands around this monster. What seemed random a year or two earlier was starting to make sense. This process continued, and eventually, I had a tight grasp on trading, and I was ringing out the last drops of water from a wet towel. Those are the fine brush strokes where you are refining your systematic decision-making process. None of this would have been possible without written trade logs. </p>
<p>“Pete did you keep any of those original trade logs?” No, they pile up very quickly and I knew that I wouldn’t take the time to go back and read them. When you give yourself a moment to reflect on an experience and then you take the time to write about it, you elevate your cognizance. What are you going to write about it? What lessons did you learn? Will you understand your notes when you read them in the future? It takes time to do this. I never threw out my old notes, they were single Word documents for an entire week. I would add to them each day and then create a new one for the next week. When I bought a new computer, I would just not transfer them over to the new computer. There were times when I would go back a few months and randomly look at my logs. “Oh yeah… #$%^ I remember that one. I won’t do that again.” The important lessons were never lost, they were etched in my memory. I still have notes from all of my failed attempts to create searches, systems and indicators. Sometimes I stumble across them and give them a glance. Most of them were trash, but some of them were the beginning of something special. There have been times when I used a component for something that I am working on currently. </p>
<p>“Pete do you still keep a trade log?” At this stage of my career, I don’t write detailed notes like I used to. When I enter a trade, I know what I am expecting and what the odds of it happening are. I also know the margin of error I am willing to accept in any of my assumptions. The “tells” of a good trade or a bad trade are obvious to me now. This is an important point. I am not setting a mechanical stop of any kind. I am monitoring all of the influences/variables that got me into the trade and they need to keep “behaving.” I’ve discussed this in my previous Trade Management articles. In time, this all becomes “second nature” and you are aware of all of the moving pieces in real-time. You won’t get to that level of awareness without written trade logs. I still review all of my trades at the end of the day. I watch the last video that I posted to YouTube before I record a new one and I note what I was thinking and I evaluate how well I performed. I also review all of my posts in the chat room to see how well the stocks did and how well I predicted the market that day. I take pride in what I do and I am always looking for ways to improve. I am also very critical of myself.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Archived_Market_Comments">Archived Market Comments</h2>
<p>By the way, OneOption members have archived my market comments on the website and they have access to this. Click The Edge and select Daily Market Analysis from the menu. That will reveal each month. Select the month and you will see the SPY D1 chart. Then you can select the day you want to review. You will see my PRE-OPEN MARKET COMMENTS and my first post for the day on an M5 chart. When you click the dots along the bottom of the chart you can see my next comment and the chart will advance. This allows you to evaluate how accurate my forecast was based on the SPY chart and the price action since that previous post. <a href="https://oneoption.com/dma/2024-01-08/">Here’s one example</a> This entire feature is a giant trade log, and it drills down from the month, to the day, and to my intraday comments. Thank you members for updating this. I wish we had started doing this 5 years ago, but at least we have it now and you can learn from my log. It goes back to August 2022. It’s really important for me to “walk the walk” and to lead by example. Otherwise, there’s no substance behind anything I’ve written. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="How_To_Analyze_Your_Trade_Logs">How To Analyze Your Trade Logs</h2>
<p>Some members are writing out detailed trade analysis and they are posting it in the chat room and to social media. These are some of our top traders. Do you think this is a coincidence? Others are recording videos. They have had to verbalize everything they’ve learned and those lessons are cemented. You don’t have to do this publicly, but you should at very least write daily logs.</p>
<p>Questions you should answer in your written trade log if you are buying:</p>
<ol class="wp-block-list">
<li>Before the day starts, you should write a <a href="https://oneoption.com/the-system/market-first/short-term-technical/price-patterns-after-the-first-hour/">market game plan</a>. What is the longer-term context? What is the shorter-term context? What news was released overnight? How did overseas markets perform? What is the opening market indication? How is the day playing out? What is the price action like? What needs to happen for a good window of opportunity to set up? What is our level of confidence? Market First!</li>
<li>Which stocks look attractive? Why is the D1 price action attractive? Is there D1 overhead resistance nearby? How much room does the stock have to run? Is the stock stacking M5 green candles on heavy volume? If it is, why is it worth so much more today? Was there news to justify the move? What industry is the stock in? Do stocks in this group typically make sustained directional moves? Has the stock been choppy intraday recently? Is it likely to dip and provide me with a better entry point? Is the stock in a nice steady grind higher? Does it have any dips? Is the stock above VWAP? Is the stock above the prior day’s high? Is the price action orderly? Is the volume heavy? Why am I focusing on this stock? Is this the best stock I can find? Why is this the perfect entry point? If it is not the perfect entry point, what would be the perfect entry point? Does this stock have a pattern I am trading? What was the pattern D1 (bullish flag, compression breakout, trendline breach, SMA cross…)? What was the M5 pattern (gap up, gap reversal, post-earnings…)? When the market dipped, did the stock tread water or move higher? Is the stock strong relative to the market? Should I set an alert or should I buy it? If I buy it, how big should the position be? Is this a starter position? Is the volume heavy? Stock Second.</li>
<li>Once you are in the trade, you have no control and you are in trade management mode. If your analysis was good, the stock will move higher and you will know that you are in a good trade. Here is the information you should be collecting once you enter. What does the SPY M5 look like? Is it consistent with the trade? How much higher do I expect the market to go? Are we in the beginning of an SPY 1OP bullish cycle? Did the last SPY cycle produce? Are we in a SPY bullish trend day or an inside day? Is the SPY in a bullish divergence? When the SPY had a red M5 bar, did the stock have a green one? When the market dipped, did the stock preserve its relative strength? Is the stock oblivious to the market and in a strong grind higher? When the stock had a nice green candle did it retrace it or hug the high of the candle? Is the stock a little choppy? How much room should I give it? Am I getting the confirmation I need from the market to consider adding? Am I getting the confirmation from the stock to add to the position? How much higher do I feel the market can go? What are the warning signs I should be watching for? Is the market trend strong enough to justify holding longs into a bearish cycle? Is the stock strong enough to weather a market dip? Is this a time to be passive and to take gains? Is this a time to be aggressive and to add to the position? What are the patterns for the SPY and the stock that are keeping me in the trade?</li>
<li>Once you exit the trade, you can complete your log. Here are some of the questions you should ask yourself. How well did I assess the market conditions? Was my forecast accurate? What did I miss? How can improve my analysis? What impact did the market have on the outcome of the trade? Did I select the best stock? Was there a better stock? What made that stock better? Can I quantify that trait so I can find these stocks easier? Did the pattern I was counting on produce? Was my entry good? How could I have improved my entry? Did I chase? If I set an alert instead of buying a breakout, could I have entered better? Would using a dip alert have kept me out of a bad trade? Was the price action what I expected after I entered? Should I have cut my losses earlier? What clues told me that I was on the wrong side? Why did I hang on to the position? Should I have held the position? What did the stock do after I exited? Would I have made money on the trade? How will I avoid bailing out of a losing trade that turns into a winner? Would a better entry point solve that? Should I have added to the position? What were the signs that the stock was going higher? Why did I exit the trade? Was it market related? What were those signs? Did the market drop? Was the stock starting to show signs of strain? What were those signs? Did I miss those signs and leave money on the table? Did I see the signs and ignore them? Why did I do that? Was my position size a factor in the decision to exit? Could I have scaled out? How would that have impacted the results? Did I bail out on one red candle? Why did I do that? </li>
<li>Did we trade options? Why? What was the bid/ask spread like? What were the option IVs like? Did the spread perform as expected? Did I buy the wrong options? Did I give the trade enough time? How would I have done if I didn’t trade options and I traded stock? Would a different options strategy have worked better? </li>
</ol>
<p>We are evaluating all of the decision-making elements before, during and after the trade. You won’t get this granularity from the traditional trade log software on the market. These handwritten answers will be cemented in your mind if you take the time to do this. If you miss the opportunity to document everything after the close, it will be gone. The memory and the emotion attached to the moment will be lost and you will not go back to recreate it. Turn on some music, relax, reflect and learn. If this helps to motivate you, know that football teams watch game film the next day. They evaluate their previous game plan and they see how well they executed. They identify what they did well and they look for ways to avoid the mistakes they made. Then they watch game film for their next opponent. They develop a game plan and they make adjustments based on what they’ve learned. We are doing the same thing.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Trade_Log_Analysis_Video">Trade Log Analysis Video</h2>
<p>I have a very talented chat room member that I keep tabs on. I “checked in” to see how they were doing and they said that progress was very slow. I asked if they would share their most recent trades with me. I thought perhaps I could help them speed up the process so they agreed to share them with me. I spent the weekend recreating every moment for each trade. This video is almost two hours long. That member is cranking out fantastic trades now. Not because of me, I’m not going to take credit for that. I simply told them where to look for the answers. <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5q0-_yM5pFk" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Here is the video</a>. The answers are in your written trade logs.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Fine_Tuning_With_Tags">Fine Tuning With Tags</h2>
<p>There are many trade log software programs that you can use to track your trades. I’m not going to highlight any of them because they all have unique features and standard ones that you would expect. Some are expensive and some are free. They will import your trade data and then you can tag each trade with a category. This is useful information, but you do need to select categories that will be meaningful. Then you can run statistical analysis based on each category to see which ones performed the best. Make sure to create a field for the market D1 (rating 1-5) and M5 (1-5). You can use negative numbers for a bearish market. You could also do the same for the stock, but you don’t need to. Why not? Because the stock D1 rating is 5 and the stock M5 rating is 4-5. Remember, we never compromise on the stock and we trade the “best of the best.” Instead, your D1 stock categories might be compression breakout, trendline high- breakout, tight orderly grind, earnings breakout, SMA breakout… Your M5 stock categories could be greater than prior day high, greater than VWAP, dip alert, relative strength M5, gap up… Think of terms that are going to help you identify the trades that perform the best and then target those traits. You might find that there are months where you perform better (or worse), days of the week where you perform better (or worse) and times during the day where you perform better (or worse). When you are trading options, you will want to create categories as well and they could include weekly call debit spreads, out of the money put credit spreads, deep in the money calls and earnings calendar spreads. Determine which strategy performs best for you. These software programs are useful, especially for seasoned traders who are fine tuning. </p>
<p>I feel very strongly about keeping written trade logs. Most of you won’t take the time to write them and your journey will take much longer than it has to. Find a nice relaxing moment to do this and create the right environment. It could be late at night after the kids are in bed. Take time to reflect on the day and write good notes that will make sense when you read them. Find an hour during the weekend to review your notes from the week and start planning for the next week. Everything in this entire course has resulted from my written trade logs. The last 15 years of my life have been a giant trade log from my blog posts to my YouTube videos, to my daily market comments to my posts in the chat room. You have not seen the logs that I have for my searches, systems and indicators. Committing your thoughts to paper reinforces them and you can review them. For novice and intermediate traders, this is a must. Trade log software programs can also provide useful information, but they are not nearly as valuable. I suggest using them to compliment your written trade logs, but they are not a substitute.</p>
</section>
