---
title: <% tp.file.title %>
draft: false
tags:
---

<div class="bg-secondary">
<h1 class="py-5 ms-3 ms-md-4 my-0">Don’t Be A Copycat</h1>
</div>
<div class="d-flex align-items-center flex-wrap text-muted ps-3 ps-md-4 py-3 border-top border-bottom">
<div class="border-end pe-3 me-3">
<span class="badge bg-faded-primary text-primary">
Trading Realities </span>
</div>
<div class="fs-sm pe-3 border-end me-3">12 min read</div>
<div class="fs-sm">
2024-04-15 </div>
</div>
<section class="px-3 px-md-4 py-4">
<h4 class="wp-block-heading">Many novice traders follow others who “know more” and they lose money.</h4>
<hr class="wp-block-separator has-alpha-channel-opacity">
<p>People trade because they want to make money. Novices know that some skill is required so they lean on sources of information that they believe are reliable. Most of them don’t appreciate how hard it is to make money trading and only a handful of them are willing to put forth the effort to learn how to do it. Their initial game plan is to follow the advice of others and to add some of their own “insights” along the way. As they get better at trading, they will rely less on other sources and they view this as a temporary “crutch.” Let’s start with some of the potential sources of information they might use and then let’s look at the danger of following others.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Following_OneOption_Trades">Following OneOption Trades</h2>
<p>Since you are reading this article, let’s start with OneOption. “Surely Pete and the Featured Traders know more than I do, I’ll just follow their trades.” The trades might be posted in the chat room, tweets or in recorded videos. You’ve had some time to observe some their trades and they’ve performed well. You are getting a good “vibe” and this should be easy. “I’ll just get in when they do and I’ll get out when they do.” </p>
<p>Out of all of the potential sources that you could follow, I would put our chat room at the top. This is a well conceived and well documented systematic trading approach and all of the trades posted conform to this decision making process. That said, how well do you know the other traders in the chat room? Have you seen their P&amp;L? Do you share their risk tolerance? The entries and exits are posted on a timely basis, but there is a lag from the time the trader gets a fill, to the time they post the trade, to the time you read the post, to the time you place the trade and until you get a fill. You are always one step behind and this is critically important when it is a short-term trade and when the market is moving quickly. Members post trades to share ideas and they serve as a real-time example of The System in action. You should go back and analyze the entry and exit of each trade that is posted. Learn from these trades and look for the common characteristics/patterns so that you can refine your own trades. </p>
<p>If you came to OneOption to get rich copying other people’s trades, you came to the wrong place. Every ounce of energy is focused on teaching you a systematic decision making process that will increase your odds of success. There are hundreds of articles and videos to help you through the process and they are free. That is why we suggest starting with 1 share of stock. Until you have a 75% win rate for a few consecutive months, you stay at that level. When you reach that milestone, you will have many of the required skills you need to make sound trading decisions on your own and you can gradually increase your size. There will still be plenty of “bumps in the road” so you increase gradually. You have respect for how hard this is and you’ve learned how to avoid most of the lethal pitfalls. During the journey, you will also notice that some of the people that you considered following are no longer trading. If you are on the free trial, don’t trade the picks in the chat room. The trial will end and you will be no better off. Learn The System, test the tools that will help you find great stocks and analyze the trades you see posted. Let’s take a look at some of the other sources of information and then let’s discuss the dangers of following other traders. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="News_Channels">News Channels</h2>
<p>CNBC, Bloomberg and Fox Business News are the TV trading giants. They make their money off of “eyeballs.” The more viewers they have, the more they can charge advertisers. They accomplish this by sensationalizing every headline and they want you to believe that it would be impossible to trade without this valuable information. The anchors are not traders, they are reporters. They are there to explain every market “wiggle and jiggle” and to entertain you. They have no trading track record and they are not accountable for anything they’ve said in the past. Yes, some of them manage long-term investments. Do they post how their track record compares to the S&amp;P 500? No. The same is true for the guests. They are there to promote their funds. If they sound intelligent and they look good, they’ve helped their brand. By the time you’ve reviewed all of the comments made by the anchors and the guests during the course of a trading day you’ve reached the conclusion that the market could go up, stay flat, or go down. I have not watched one minute of these programs in over 20 years. If you want to learn how to trade, turn that noise off and focus on price.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Large_Trading_Firms">Large Trading Firms</h2>
<p>Large trading firms like Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and others produce “inside research” for their big accounts. The first thing you should know is that the proprietary trading arm of these firms operates behind a “Chinese Wall.” They are trading the firm’s capital and this information is highly guarded. By SEC rule and regulation, it is illegal for these proprietary traders to discuss their activities with anyone outside of that circle. If you think about it, sharing that information would be disastrous for the firm because competitors would know their exposure. It would be like showing your hand in a game of poker. The other analysts for the firm operate outside of the proprietary arm. They conduct research and they publish their analysis for their clients (funds and high net worth customers) along with recommendations. These analysts upgrade and downgrade stocks based on their findings. A few times a week, we will see a stock with incredible relative strength and we will take a long position. The next day, the stock will be upgraded by an analyst. The news was released internally the day before and they were taking positions in advance of making it public. The next day, the stock shoots higher. Our goal is to follow the institutional money and we don’t need their research, we just need to follow their bread crumbs via price action. By the way, many analysts in the firm are often wrong long-term. They are constantly revising estimates and price targets and they are always “one step behind.” When I am in a trade that benefits from an overnight upgrade, I will ride that initial surge as long as I can during the day and then I will take gains. These moves are often temporary. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="oo__Gurus_Outside_Of_OneOption">“Gurus” Outside Of OneOption</h2>
<p>We know that following OneOption members is not wise, but at least they are following a systematic decision making process and you have some notion of the basis for the trade. Following traders outside of OneOption is foolish. This includes your brother in-law who has “traded for years,” your neighbor who drives a nice car, your co-worker who just made a killing buying calls or someone you met on Discord who talks a good game. You don’t know these people and you don’t know how successful they’ve been long term. You don’t have proof that they are actually making money. No one is going to share their P&amp;L and it would be insulting for you to ask them for one. You also don’t know how consistent they are or what their drawdowns have been like. They will brag about their huge wins and you will never hear about the losers. You will be jealous and you will feel stupid for not putting your money to work like they do. Do not follow these people!! </p>
<p>There is no shortage of “gurus” who are going to share their “secrets” and make you rich. First of all, who are these people? Besides their advertisements, what qualifies them as a good trader? Unless they are sharing all of their trades real-time with entries and exits, I wouldn’t trust them. Brokerage statements can be photoshopped. A common “trick” is to highlight a period where they performed exceptionally or to “cherry pick” the best trades. These “gurus” spend a ton of money on advertising. They prey on greedy, lazy folks who want to make a fortune following someone else. According to the ads, you can make money trading while sipping Pina Coladas poolside. Of course, sharing their their trades will come at a hefty subscription price. If you buy their educational programs, the “secrets” are recycled concepts you could have gotten from a $50 book on technical analysis. This is a business for them and they want to make money selling you their advice. Here are a couple of great questions to ask yourself. Why would a great trader want to share their secrets? They wouldn’t. In fact, they will go out of their way to conceal what they are doing because they want to fly under the radar. Why would a great trader need your money? They wouldn’t. Their best use of time and energy is to trade. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Do_Your_Own_Homework">Do Your Own Homework</h2>
<p>If you are studying for your law degree, you can cheat and copy someone else’s answers on a test. Hopefully they know the right answer. Even if they do, you have not learned a thing and when it is time to take your boards, you will fail miserably. The same is true for trading. </p>
<p>Two people can take the same trade, but their risk tolerance is not the same. One trader might be willing to let the trade move wildly against them while the other needs to maintain a tight stop. You don’t know the other person’s risk tolerance when you follow their trades. You also do not know their time horizon. Is this a day trade or a swing trade? You also don’t know why the other person took the trade. What was their long-term and short-term market bias? What was their level of confidence? Do you share that opinion? What did they see in the stock on a long-term and short-term basis? What were the technicals they were leaning on? What was their game plan? How will you know when you are wrong and where will you set a target? What is the position size and how will you know if you should add to the trade? Is the other trader aware of scheduled events that might impact the trade? These are all critically important questions that need to be answered. </p>
<p>If you ask the other trader for these answers, they will reply, “Do your own homework.” They don’t have time to answer your questions and they are not interested in spoon feeding you. If you make money on the trades, you will be excited. Now you have a “golden goose” and you will be eagerly waiting for the next “golden egg.” You will become more and more dependent on that trader for new ideas. If the trades start to lose money, you won’t know why. You were not a part of the decision making process so you don’t know what to change or what they might have missed. At anytime, the other trader can decide not to post their trades and you’ve learned nothing from the experience. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Be_The_Lead_Dog">Be The Lead Dog</h2>
<p>When I write articles like this I am more critical of myself than I am of others. I’m not a hypocrite and I am proud of what I’ve built and the people I’ve helped. When I post a pick in a video, I always review it in the next video so that you can gauge the performance. I am not charging you for my picks and I don’t want you blindly following them. They are real examples of trades that are setting up based on the system I teach and I explain in great detail why the trade is attractive. The vast majority of the education I provide is free for everyone and the rest is free to OneOption members. I’m not charging you thousands of dollars for this, but I could. Yes, I offer a platform. So do TC2000, Trading View and others. The software is not going to make you rich and you will never hear that claim from me. Yes, I offer a chat room that focuses on the system we trade. Yes, I charge for them. It is expensive to develop/maintain/support them and I would like to do better than cover my costs. I want to teach as many people as I can, but I am not going to do this to my own detriment and expense. You do not need Option Stalker Pro and you do not need the OneOption chat room to learn The System and to implement what I teach. </p>
<p>Don’t be a copycat. Either roll up your sleeves and learn how to trade or walk away. You will not get rich following anyone else. The view is always the same if you are not the lead dog. Be the lead dog!</p>
</section>
