---
title: <% tp.file.title %>
draft: false
tags:
---

<div class="bg-secondary">
<h1 class="py-5 ms-3 ms-md-4 my-0">Don’t Paint Yourself Into A Corner</h1>
</div>
<div class="d-flex align-items-center flex-wrap text-muted ps-3 ps-md-4 py-3 border-top border-bottom">
<div class="border-end pe-3 me-3">
<span class="badge bg-faded-primary text-primary">
Trading Realities </span>
</div>
<div class="fs-sm pe-3 border-end me-3">9 min read</div>
<div class="fs-sm">
2024-09-03 </div>
</div>
<section class="px-3 px-md-4 py-4">
<h4 class="wp-block-heading">Give your trades plenty of time to work out. Your entry won’t be perfect and things don’t always go as expected. </h4>
<hr class="wp-block-separator has-alpha-channel-opacity">
<p>Trading is about control and we want to preserve it as long as possible. That’s why we wait for technical confirmation before we enter a new position. Once we are in the trade, we lose some of our control and we are at the mercy of the stock and the market. We only trade the “best of the best.” The multitude of marked “checkboxes” for every trade increases our odds of success and setting high standards for each position keeps us out of marginal trades. A large basket of trades is more difficult to manage/monitor and that reduces our control. When we sense danger, we don’t hedge our positions, we exit some of them to reduce risk. Cash offers us maximum control and flexibility. Cash also gives us clarity. Instead of managing a large basket of positions, we are focused on reading price action and we are waiting for the next opportunity to set up. We have no emotional involvement when we have cash and we are ready to strike. These are some of the ways that we preserve our control.</p>
<p>This same concept applies to sports. When you lose your balance, you are not in control. That’s when mistakes happen. You wait for your opponent to be off balance. That presents a window of opportunity and that is when you strike.</p>
<p>Time impacts our control. There are scheduled events that we can predict. As they draw closer, these events reduce our flexibility and our control. We don’t want to be forced out of trades just because the event is approaching and we need to plan around it. Here are some situations you should avoid. These timelines will force you to act and they will limit your control.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Day_Trading_Too_Late_In_The_Day">Day Trading Too Late In The Day</h2>
<p>When we day trade with less than an hour left in the day, we don’t have time for the stock to move around. It has to perform immediately. If it is a day trade, our intention is to get out of the position by the end of the day and to keep our overnight risk to a minimum. Price movement in the last hour of trading is often choppy and there is no reason to force these trades. Time is working against you. If the stock moves against you, it doesn’t have enough time to recover and you are forced to take the loss.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Pattern_Day_Trading_Rules_PDT_">Pattern Day Trading Rules (PDT)</h2>
<p>Many small accounts fall under PDT because they have less than $25,000 in the account. Traders know that they can exit 3 trades in the same day in a 5 day period. If they violate that rule, the account will be restricted until there is $25,000 in the account. Traders who have exited three trades already are forced to hold positions overnight. If the trade is moving against you, this is a big risk to take. You have no control! </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Leveraging_The_Entire_Account">Leveraging The Entire Account</h2>
<p>This can happen to day traders who use 4X buying power to enter stock positions. If the stock moves against you, there is no way for you to hold that position overnight. You don’t have enough money to do that. Again, you have relinquished control. If you are going to leverage to this extent, you had better make sure that your entries are excellent. You can’t afford to have the position move against you. Day traders also need to enter leveraged stock trades in the first half of the day so they have time to recover if something goes wrong. Swing traders also have an issue when they overleverage. Let’s say that you sold naked puts on a stock that you intend to buy. The margin you have to put up (20%) is much less than the margin you would have to put up to buy the stock on margin (50%). The stock tanks and now you can’t afford to buy it. You have to buy the puts back for a loss and you are not in control. Using an entire account also limits you from taking advantage of new trades. You don’t have enough cash in the account so you will miss those opportunities. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Taking_Positions_Before_Big_News_Events">Taking Positions Before Big News Events</h2>
<p>If you are entering trades before the FOMC Statement or a major economic release that has produced big moves, you are compromising your control. Your window of opportunity is closing and the stock has to perform right away. The position doesn’t have time to move around. It has to perform right away. If it’s a losing trade, you will be forced to take the hit. Some traders will hold the position into the event because they don’t want to take the loss. Now they are compromising their trading discipline. They have identified that a pending event creates uncertainty and that they need to reduce risk ahead of it. Now they’ve decided to abandon their game plan. They are no longer in control and risk is elevated. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Buying_Options_That_Expire_Too_Soon">Buying Options That Expire Too Soon</h2>
<p>“Hey, XYX looks like it is going to fly. I think I will buy some calls. The weekly at the money calls look good. I can buy more of these and the options a few weeks farther out are “too expensive.” Besides, I am not going to hold this position for a few days so time decay will not be a big factor.” This is the logic most traders use. I see it all the time. You are not giving the trade any latitude and time is your enemy. These options are going to expire in a week and time decay is going to be working against you. If anything goes wrong, you are screwed. An overnight market hiccup, an earnings release from a peer or an analyst downgrade can push the stock down temporarily. Perhaps the stock has run hard to get through resistance and it just needs to rest for a few days. You can’t afford to have this happen. The stock can’t sit still and it certainly can’t retrace. It has to move higher right now or you are going to lose money. In this instance, you have very little control. The options expire worthless and then you watch the stock continue higher. This will leave a mental scar. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Trading_Ahead_Of_Earnings">Trading Ahead Of Earnings</h2>
<p>We don’t hold positions over earnings announcements. This is a binary event and our odds are 50:50. These are not the odds we want and we know we need to exit trades before the earnings announcement. If you are taking a swing position a few days out from the announcement, you have very little flexibility. You can’t afford to have the stock move against you. There’s no time for it rebound and you have to be out before the number. You can take this example to the extreme by day trading stocks that announce earnings after the close or before the open the next day using 4X day trading buying power. You are painting yourself into a corner. Stocks that are about to report earnings are often very volatile the day before the announcement. Institutions are squaring positions based on their expectations. There are buyers and there are sellers. That increases the volatility. Stocks that look great one minute suddenly change their character. Avoid swing trading stocks that announce earnings in a few days and don’t day trade stocks that are going to report earnings overnight. You are giving up too much control when you do this. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Quitting_Your_Real_Job_Too_Soon">Quitting Your “Real Job” Too Soon</h2>
<p>Your primary income is essential when you are learning how to trade. It will provide you with a safety net. If you go through a rough patch, you won’t have to worry about paying your bills because you have a steady income. If you go through a losing streak, your primary income will give you the ability to earn that money back. You can learn at your own pace and you are not forcing yourself to perform immediately. When you quit your “real job,” you are giving up some of your control.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Not_Planning_For_Expenses">Not Planning For Expenses</h2>
<p>Some traders have borrowed money to fund their trading account. It might not be from a friend or a relative, it could be money that is “ear marked” for upcoming expenses. Income taxes, property taxes, a home remodeling project, a new car or other “big ticket” items would qualify. You know when these expenses are due and your account is not as big as you think it is because you have borrowed money that you will need. When you are forced to take money out of your account, you will have to liquidate positions. Borrowing money to finance your trading is never a good idea because it is not money that you can afford to lose. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Trading_Ill_Liquid_Stocks_Or_Options">Trading Ill-Liquid Stocks Or Options</h2>
<p>Traders will often trade momentum stocks that have wide bid/ask spreads. Traders can and do trade them using 4X intraday leverage. These stocks are so volatile that you have to give them some room to move around. If the stock moves against you, it will be more difficult to exit because the bid “drops out” quickly. Now you are left holding the bag. You are hoping that the stock comes back because you will be forced to exit the position. You don’t have the capital you need to hold it overnight and you do not control the situation. The same is true for ill-liquid options with a wide bid/ask spread. You are always at the mercy of the Market Maker and you will exit at a price that is attractive to the Market Maker. There is often no one else trading these options. You might think that selling an out of the money bullish put spread will not be an issue because you won’t have to exit the trade. It will expire worthless. That’s fine if everything goes according to plan. When it doesn’t go according to plan and you need to close the trade, it will be very difficult. You also will not be able to “leg out” of the position because the bid/ask on each leg is so wide. This reduces your flexibility. Stick with liquid stocks and liquid options and stay in control. </p>
<p>We are in control until we enter the trade. Once we enter the position, we are at the mercy of the market and the stock. Hang on to that control as long as you can. The issues I’ve mentioned in this article will also impact your control. Avoid these situations and “don’t paint yourself into a corner.” </p>
</section>
