---
title: <% tp.file.title %>
draft: false
tags:
---

<div class="bg-secondary">
<h1 class="py-5 ms-3 ms-md-4 my-0">Heads Or Tails?</h1>
</div>
<div class="d-flex align-items-center flex-wrap text-muted ps-3 ps-md-4 py-3 border-top border-bottom">
<div class="border-end pe-3 me-3">
<span class="badge bg-faded-primary text-primary">
Trading Realities </span>
</div>
<div class="fs-sm pe-3 border-end me-3">6 min read</div>
<div class="fs-sm">
2024-04-15 </div>
</div>
<section class="px-3 px-md-4 py-4">
<h4 class="wp-block-heading">Many traders trade binary events. They don’t want to learn how to trade, they just want to gamble.</h4>
<hr class="wp-block-separator has-alpha-channel-opacity">
<p>A seasoned trader that sticks to this system can reach a win rate greater than 75%. A binary event has a 50% win rate. Why would anyone settle for those odds?</p>
<p>A binary event is a scheduled news release that is going to have a major impact on the price of the stock. It will either be “good” or “bad.” The most common binary event is an earnings announcement. Stocks make gigantic moves after reporting quarterly results and these will be some of the biggest moves on a chart. There’s nothing like the thrill of taking a position and then waiting for “the number.” I know, I’ve traded plenty of them. I spent years trying to find a method that would work. First I played “Junior Analyst” and I put on my “fundamentals hat.” I looked at the earnings trends and I gathered information on guidance revisions and analyst upgrades and downgrades. I looked at the guidance from competitors who had recently released and I monitored the reactions to those releases. There’s nothing more frustrating than getting “the number” right and then watching the stock tank. Perhaps there was a “technical” clue. I studied price patterns before the release and I used proprietary indicators to see if they might provide a clue. I analyzed charts to see if a big reaction either way might produce a major technical breach and fuel the move in that direction. I gathered information on option open interest (calls and puts) and implied volatilities to see if there was a bias. Perhaps the size of previous reactions compared to the previous expected moves (the cost of a straddle) would provide and answer. During this evaluation, I tried every options strategy you can imagine. Here are my conclusions.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Trading_Earnings_Releases">Trading Earnings Releases</h2>
<p>You can’t predict the direction or the magnitude of the earnings reaction. Every major institution is running their models and I can’t compete. They have better information than I do. They know every little component supplier for iPhones and spend millions of dollars gathering data. They also see much of the order flow as an executing broker for large funds so they know the bias. All of the time I’ve spent analyzing upcoming earnings releases and all of the time I’ve spent managing the positions after the release was a waste of time. I was able to produce slightly better than a 50% win rate. If I spent that same amount of time finding normal trades, I could make a lot more money with much higher odds of success. </p>
<p>I can trade the stock before the earnings announcement and I collect data on stocks that have a tendency to rally (drop) ahead of the release historically. We also trade the price action for stocks that are about to release earnings. After the announcement there are plenty of opportunities to trade the stock. I have a study called eReaction that shows the price action on an M5 chart for the last four quarters immediately after the release to see if there are any patterns on a major gap up or down. I also have post earnings searches that track the stock’s performance since the release. Often, the initial reaction is a head fake and the stock’s true colors are not revealed for a few days. We also calculate and display AVWAPE. There are plenty of opportunities with excellent odds before and after the number. </p>
<p>So why do people trade earnings releases? Because it is exciting and because they think they are going to hit a big winner. There is very little research conducted by most earnings traders. They have a “hunch” that the stock is going to go up (or down). Little do they realize that the option premiums are sky high. There is uncertainty surrounding the stock heading into the announcement and Market Makers are pricing in a big move in either direction. Here’s one of my favorite conversations. “Pete, if I buy a call option and the stock goes up the next day, isn’t the price of the call supposed to go up?” I have learned to respond with my own question, “Did you buy calls on a stock that was reporting earnings overnight?” “Yes, how did you know?” Even if you got the direction right, you will often lose money on earnings trades because the move is not “big enough.” If you got the direction wrong, you will be crushed like a little bug.</p>
<p>“Pete, just because you couldn’t make money trading earnings reactions doesn’t mean that I can’t find a system that works.” That is very true. Go for it! Plan on spending years building, testing and perfecting your system. I will avoid binary events and I will keep trading a system that I know produces consistent results. I’ve traveled the “earnings road” (and many others) to get to find the one I am on. </p>
<p>Other possible binary reactions include clinical trial results, new product releases, investor conferences and lawsuit verdicts (i.e. patent infringement). The Market Makers are aware of these events and the options implied volatilities will be sky high. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Market_Related_Binary_Events">Market Related Binary Events</h2>
<p>There are also market related binary events. The FOMC Statement is released eight times a year. This is a major news event because it is when the Federal Reserve raises and cuts interest rates. When the Fed is in a holding pattern, it is less significant. During 2022, the Fed was on the most progressive rate hike I’ve seen during my career. They were trying to fight inflation and these dates were important. During the Financial Crisis of 2008, these statements were also very important because the Fed was trying to prevent a collapse. From a trading standpoint, you adjust risk ahead of the release if you feel that it could have a major market impact. If you feel that the news will not have a major market impact, you stick with your current positions and you mentally prepare yourself for the worst outcome. You determine what type of reaction might prompt you to adjust your risk. You also prepare yourself for the best outcome and you determine if it would be prudent to add to your positions if it plays out. Major economic releases can also move the market. The biggest one is the Unemployment Report and it is released on the first Friday of the month. </p>
<p>For the most part, binary market events are not that damaging. If you feel the reaction could be significant, plan around it. Avoid binary events for the stock. The time and effort you spend trying to predict the outcome can be better spent on normal trades. Leave earnings trades to the gamblers who have a “hunch.” Consistency is the name of the game and you won’t find it trading earnings releases.</p>
<p> </p>
</section>
