---
title: <% tp.file.title %>
draft: false
tags:
---

<div class="bg-secondary">
<h1 class="py-5 ms-3 ms-md-4 my-0">Market First! Don’t Take Your Eye Off of the Ball</h1>
</div>
<div class="d-flex align-items-center flex-wrap text-muted ps-3 ps-md-4 py-3 border-top border-bottom">
<div class="border-end pe-3 me-3">
<span class="badge bg-faded-primary text-primary">
Trading Realities </span>
</div>
<div class="fs-sm pe-3 border-end me-3">7 min read</div>
<div class="fs-sm">
2024-04-15 </div>
</div>
<section class="px-3 px-md-4 py-4">
<h4 class="wp-block-heading">In almost every instance, I can trace a bad trade back to what was happening in the overall market.</h4>
<hr class="wp-block-separator has-alpha-channel-opacity">
<p>If you only learn one thing from me about trading, learn the concept of Market First. The market drives all of our decision making and 75% of all stocks follow the market. To illustrate this another way, we are trading the market, but we are riding the fastest horse to increase our odds. Is picking the right stock important? Yes, but not as important as getting the market right. This same principle applies to swing trading and day trading. </p>
<p>Traders often ask me to review a trade that went “sour.” They explain all of the checkboxes that were marked and how the “short” looked ideal. They can’t understand what went wrong and they ask me when they should have stopped this loser out. My answer is often a question, “Why did you short a stock when the market was going up?” The very first and most important checkbox was not marked and it was the D1 chart of SPY. All ships rise with the tide and no matter how great the short looked, you needed to wait for the market to align with the short. Furthermore, any stop would have produced a loser. The key was not to take the trade in the first place.</p>
<p>I’ve had plenty of instances where a trader is frustrated. They had excellent performance during a recent stretch and they thought they had “figured everything out.” Then all of a sudden, their winning percentage drops and they are right back at square one. When I point out that the market was in a nice move higher during their winning streak and that it has recently compressed/stalled, it is almost as if they are hearing the concept of market first for the first time. When you get a nice market run and you are killing it, look for signs that the momentum is starting to wane (bearish hammer, bearish engulfing candles, compressed intraday ranges, mixed candles, wicks…). Start taking gains and reduce your risk exposure. In time, that move will be exhausted, but many traders act like it is going to last forever. There is nothing on the D1 chart to suggest that, but they keep on buying. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Swing_Trading">Swing Trading</h2>
<p>There will be times when we don’t have a great read on the market for swing trading. That could be the case if it is compressing in a tight range. There will be a breakout one way or the other, but we don’t know which way. While we wait, there are bullish put spreads that we can sell on strong stocks and bearish call spreads that we can sell on weak stocks. These are fairly market neutral strategies that will benefit from time decay while the market is trapped in a range. There could be times when the market has huge overnight swings without any real trend (2022). Again, we can’t get a good read on direction. The volatility tells us that buyers and sellers are engaged and that we could get a big move one way or the other. In these instances, we should focus more on finding day trading opportunities. The moves intraday are good, but we want to limit our overnight risk exposure so try to be “flat” by the end of the day. </p>
<p>Traders will often get locked into a particular strategy. Selling out of the money bullish put spreads is a bread and butter strategy for swing traders, but you need a neutral to slightly bullish market. Traders who have successfully traded this strategy for years (2010-2019) will fail miserably in a bear market (2022). </p>
<p>The D1 market context is also important. Are we seeing mixed candles with lots of overlap on light volume? This is a sign of a weak trend. Are we seeing tiny bodied compressed candles with marginal new highs after a nice rally? This is a sign that the market is likely hitting resistance and that we can expect a dip or a drop. If the market is compressing on a D1 basis and the intraday ranges are small, we will see that on the chart. In this instance when the market opens inside of the prior day’s range and the volume is light, it tells us to keep our day trades to a minimum. The day trader who keeps adding new positions is going to take a beating in this environment. Every M5 breakout that looks great is going to reverse. </p>
<p>Is the market breaking through multiple resistance levels with stacked “greens” and good volume D1? That is a sign that the trend is strong. From all of our earlier lessons, we know that an overnight market gap down in a strong up trend is our best case scenario for bullish day trades. That drop will allow us to enter longs at a good price and as the gap reversal takes hold, there is plenty of upside as the market recovers. That opening gap down also gives us a chance to evaluate/find stocks with relative strength. The strongest stocks will still be near the prior day’s close and they will be ticking higher even before the market finds support. As the gap fills, this could turn into a bullish trend day and that would mean that we should ride the move higher as long as possible. The day trader who is oblivious to the market will take early gains like they always do and miss incredible profits. If the market is trending D1, we can use that tailwind and enter trades with a directional bias. If our confidence is high and the trend is strong, we can get aggressive with our trades. We can add to our long positions and we can use more aggressive trading strategies like buying ATM call debit spreads. With a strong market trend it also means that we can take larger positions and that we should be inclined to let winning trades run. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Day_Trading">Day Trading</h2>
<p>Traders will often enter day trades poorly. They have zeroed in on the stock and after making a series of new highs for the day, they can’t resist temptation any longer and they buy. At that time, 1OP for SPY has a bearish cross M5. That is a sign that the market is ready to roll over. At very least, see what that bearish cycle produces in the next 15-20 minutes. There is no harm in waiting. If the market rolls over, the stock is likely to do so as well. If the selling accelerates, you will be glad you did not buy the stock. If the market rolls over and the stock hugs the high of the day, you know you have a strong stock. As soon as the market finds its footing, you can buy with confidence. If the bearish cycle on SPY is benign, you can take comfort knowing that you are not trading against a weak market and you can take a long starter position. </p>
<p>Our D1 confidence in our market forecast sets the tone for everything we do. It determines our trade duration, our position sizes, and the number of trades we do. Market conditions impact our stops and our targets. There will be times when our confidence is high, but the trend strength is weak. We are sure that the market will be trapped in a range. This is when we reduce our size and when we favor neutral strategies. There will be other times when the trend is strong and our confidence is high. This is when we can get aggressive with our trades. We can also extend the duration of our trades. Instead of focusing on short term moves, we can take longer term swing trades. We should also set higher targets on the notion that the move will have follow through. What ever is happening on a D1 basis is likely to transfer over to an M5 basis as well. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Regardless_Of_Time_Frame_Market_First_">Regardless Of Time Frame – Market First!</h2>
<p>Don’t take your eye off of the ball. We are trading the market so always have a D1 and an M5 chart of the SPY up. When you are reviewing your trade logs, I highly suggest that you start with the market backdrop D1 for swing trades and M5 for day trades. Here is a video I did on <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5q0-_yM5pFk" target="_blank" rel="noopener">trade log analysis.</a></p>
</section>
