
<div class="bg-secondary">
<h1 class="py-5 ms-3 ms-md-4 my-0">Rigid Thinkers</h1>
</div>
<div class="d-flex align-items-center flex-wrap text-muted ps-3 ps-md-4 py-3 border-top border-bottom">
<div class="border-end pe-3 me-3">
<span class="badge bg-faded-primary text-primary">
Trading Realities </span>
</div>
<div class="fs-sm pe-3 border-end me-3">6 min read</div>
<div class="fs-sm">
2024-09-03 </div>
</div>
<section class="px-3 px-md-4 py-4">
<h4 class="wp-block-heading">As traders it is important to be confident, but not rigid. We always need to see both sides of the coin and we need to leave room for error. </h4>
<hr class="wp-block-separator has-alpha-channel-opacity">
<p>We gather data, we analyze the data and we draw conclusions. Then we assess which outcomes are most likely to happen and we act when the odds are high. If the odds are not high, we continue the process information until they are. The market is dynamic and we should not expect that we are going to predict market direction correctly every time. That is why we take starter positions and we only add when we have technical confirmation. Traders continue to gather and analyze data through the course of the trade and they make adjustments to their forecast. It’s important to remain flexible and to analyze new data objectively. Try not to view it through the lens of your current position. Many traders struggle with this and they only see what they want to see. </p>
<p>There is a fine balance between being confident in your analysis and being rigid in your thinking. On one extreme we have the <a href="https://oneoption.com/the-system/common-mistakes/the-flip-flop-trader/">Flip Flop Trader</a>. They don’t have confidence in their analysis and their forecast changes every time the wind blows. They are constantly in and out of positions trading from both sides. On the other extreme, there are rigid traders who act with extreme confidence and they operate in absolutes. Some of this might be explained by their personality. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Perma_Bull">Perma Bull</h2>
<p>This trader only sees the market from the long side. In their mind, it only goes up. Given that the market does spend most of its time going up, this is not the worst camp to be in. They tend to be optimists and they are always searching for reasons to buy. This is not an issue for investors who do not use leverage and who have a very long-term horizon. They can ride out market drops and they can dollar cost average with confidence knowing that eventually the market will come back. Traders do use leverage and this approach will eventually wipe out an account. When the market drops, the trader is forced to liquidate the positions for a large loss and their trading career is over. Bull markets can last for a decade and many traders have never even seen a bear market. They don’t know how to short and they can’t see both sides of the coin. Let’s suppose the S&amp;P 500 was down 30% in the last year. These traders were bullish at the top and all the way down. Every single failed bounce along the way was a buying opportunity in their eyes. They kept averaging down and now the account is in peril. Since we are trading and not investing, it is critically important to stay objective and to recognize selling pressure. Many traders refuse to short stocks and they are “long only” traders. If you fall into this camp, you had better learn that cash is a position. There will be times when you need to go to the sideline and wait for the market to drop. Then you need to wait for a base to form over a period of months and you need to look for higher lows. Only then you resume your trading. Every trader should learn how to short. It will increase your clarity/perspective and instead of being sidelined, you will make money during the decline. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Perma_Bear">Perma Bear</h2>
<p>These traders have made money shorting. It’s the only way you can become a “Perma Bear.” They relished the thought of making money when there was panic in the streets. Everyone else was losing money and they were making money. They know that the market “takes the stairs up and the elevator down.” They made a lot of money shorting and they can’t get it out of their minds. The profits came quickly and they want to find those opportunities again. These traders tend to be pessimists and they are always looking for a big drop. Every dip off of a new relative high is a market top and they are ready to short. These traders know that when the move comes, the action will be fast and furious. The market could be up 30% in a year and these traders have been picking tops (shorting) the whole way up. I could name names, but I won’t. There have been many analysts that got a crash right and they made a name for themselves. Then their true colors showed. They were “Perma Bears” and they were constantly predicting a global credit crisis. The market soared to new all-time highs and they were still beating the same drum. As the saying goes, “Even a blind squirrel can find a nut from time to time.” The market goes up a lot more than it goes down. “Perma Bears” are destine to fail.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Perma_Fade">Perma Fade</h2>
<p>This guy is always looking for an argument. If you say black, he says white. He could be blind and it won’t matter. He just wants to take the other side of every bet. If the market is in a strong up trend, he is looking to fade it. “It’s over-extended.” Then they will find every reason they can to short. If the market drops, he wants to buy. “This is a great entry point.” These traders can do well in a sideways market, but they will get crushed during a trend. This personality sets up better for scalping because they tend to change their opinion often. If they can get in and out quickly they will do fine, but the underlying has to be trapped in a horizontal trading range. As soon as the trade starts to gain traction, they take gains and they are actually considering a short. It’s crazy, but I see this all the time. These traders will NEVER catch a trade and ride a trend. This is where the big money is made. You don’t just ride the trade, if the trend is strong, you add to it on confirmation and you build a big position.</p>
<p>It’s never good to have a rigid mindset when you are trading. Market conditions change constantly. If we continuously gather data and we process it objectively, we can adapt and adjust. We are trading based on the current odds based on the information we’ve processed to this point and the odds are never 100%. We leave room for error and as new information is presented, we factor that in and we adjust the odds. Then we act accordingly. If you feel that you have a tendency to fall into one of these three categories, identify the issue and then work on ways to break that mindset. Write detailed trade logs and get the problem out in the open. Then include possible solutions in your future game plans. </p>
</section>
