
<div class="bg-secondary">
<h1 class="py-5 ms-3 ms-md-4 my-0">The Danger of Over-Leveraging</h1>
</div>
<div class="d-flex align-items-center flex-wrap text-muted ps-3 ps-md-4 py-3 border-top border-bottom">
<div class="border-end pe-3 me-3">
<span class="badge bg-faded-primary text-primary">
Trading Realities </span>
</div>
<div class="fs-sm pe-3 border-end me-3">6 min read</div>
<div class="fs-sm">
2024-05-05 </div>
</div>
<section class="px-3 px-md-4 py-4">
<h4 class="wp-block-heading">There a variety of situations that lead a trader to take a large position. In this article, I will cover the most common reasons and how to identify if your position is too large.</h4>
<hr class="wp-block-separator has-alpha-channel-opacity">
<p>When you allocate a large portion of your portfolio to a single position, you are overleveraged or over-exposed. In general, if more than 5% of your account is allocated to one trade, it is too large. An easier way to determine if your position is too large is to check your emotions. Are you worried about the position? Are you constantly thinking about the position? Do you watch every tick? If the answer to these questions is yes, it is too large. </p>
<p>The problem with over-leveraging is that you can’t objectively think about the market or the stock. You are so consumed with the trade that all of the technical reasons for taking the trade become irrelevant. You are emotionally attached to it and you start to see things that aren’t there and you find reasons to exit the position at the first sign of trouble. When you entered the trade, you were focused on the upside gains you could make if it works out and now you are worried about how much money you could lose. The bottom line is that “scared money never wins” and you have no staying power. This is why I urge new traders to use 1 share of stock and to work on their win rate. You will not have any emotional attachment to it with 1 share and you can focus on the trade and the surrounding conditions. So why do traders paint themselves into a corner like this? </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Greed">Greed</h2>
<p>The most common reason is that they want to make a lot of money. Why buy 1 share of stock when I can trade 5 call options? I can’t pay my bills when I only make a few cents per trade, I need to make a few hundred dollars per trade. Learning how to trade takes years and it is not something you can just jump into and master. In the section titled Unrealistic Expectations, I get into greater detail about becoming a professional trader. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="After_Big_Winners">After Big Winners</h2>
<p>Personally, my biggest losers would always follow my biggest winners. Your P&amp;L is jumping and you trade as if that streak is going to continue. Recent profits cloud your objectivity and you lose your focus. Conditions change constantly and big runs often come to a screeching halt. When I reviewed my trade logs, I could see this tendency. If you have a “let it ride mentality,” I suggest taking a nice chunk of money out of your account when you have a big run. You have to pay yourself anyway so pay yourself well. Then act as if you had a big loss and that is why your account is down. This might not work for everyone, but it worked for me. This grounds me and I quickly regain my focus. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="oo__Can_t_Miss_Opportunities">“Can’t Miss” Opportunities</h2>
<p>There will be times when a “can’t miss” opportunity presents itself. Every checkbox is marked and this is your time to “swing for the fence.” Your confidence is sky high and you start thinking about all of the money you can make. You enter the trade and you keep adding to it. Once you have the trade on, you start thinking about how devastating it would be if the trade did not work out. You just felt like this was a can’t miss opportunity and now you don’t feel as confident. Out of nowhere, a piece of unexpected news hits and the bottom of your gut drops out. You don’t wait to see if the news was material and you don’t care. All you know is that you have a big loser on your hands so you close the position for a big loss. Not all over-leveraged positions lose money, some will be extremely profitable and that can be even worse. You start thinking about how smart you were and how you “knew” this was going to be a great trade and how you are going to spend all of that money. The big hurt is coming and eventually you will blow up your account. Know that the market has a way of destroying the best laid plans. Keep your balance and your perspective. No one trade should make you or break you. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Revenge_Trading">Revenge Trading</h2>
<p>Some traders leverage up because they just took a big loss. They have to make that money back and they think, “This trade really sets up nicely.” I have been wrong recently, but this time I am going to be right. The problem is that you couldn’t shoulder the previous loss and now you are setting yourself up for a knockout punch that could leave you on the mat. When you have a big loss, your first thought should be to figure out what went wrong and to never repeat that mistake again. This is why it is critically important to trade 1 share when you start your trading journey. There will be many lessons along the way and they will be very expensive if you are trading more than 1 share. If you keep getting knocked out, you will run out of money. Yes, even seasoned traders can take a hit, but most of them know that the way to recover is not to ramp up. This is a time to reflect. Pare your size back and gradually work your way back. Be ultra disciplined and only take the best trades where all of the checkboxes are marked. I mentioned earlier that some of my biggest losses would come after my biggest gains. The opposite is also true. Some of my biggest gains came after a draw down. Early in my trading career, my P&amp;L was volatile, but over time the lessons you learn will will help you to avoid pitfalls and your performance will become more consistent.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Final_Tips">Final Tips</h2>
<p>So here are some tips that might help you. If you are emotionally attached to the position, it’s too big. If you think this is a “sure bet,” the market is likely to throw you a curveball. If you have had a big run, take some “chips” off of the table. If you’ve had recent losses, don’t ramp up, hanker down. The key to successful trading is to always stay in control and no one trade should make or break you. Trading should not be nerve wracking or exciting, it should be stable, calculated and controlled.</p>
</section>
