---
title: <% tp.file.title %>
draft: false
tags:
---

<div class="bg-secondary">
<h1 class="py-5 ms-3 ms-md-4 my-0">Trading Is A Business</h1>
</div>
<div class="d-flex align-items-center flex-wrap text-muted ps-3 ps-md-4 py-3 border-top border-bottom">
<div class="border-end pe-3 me-3">
<span class="badge bg-faded-primary text-primary">
Trading Realities </span>
</div>
<div class="fs-sm pe-3 border-end me-3">28 min read</div>
<div class="fs-sm">
2024-09-03 </div>
</div>
<section class="px-3 px-md-4 py-4">
<h4 class="wp-block-heading">Businesses are very easy to start and they are difficult to grow. There are a million ways to fail and only a few paths to success. </h4>
<hr class="wp-block-separator has-alpha-channel-opacity">
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Introduction">Introduction</h2>
<p>Many novices view trading as an easy way to get rich quick. Most of them lose their money and they are done with the “experiment.” The experience was painful and they’ll never return. A small percentage of these traders enjoyed the process even through they lost money. They realize that this is going to take a lot of effort and they are ready to take it seriously. They roll up their sleeves and they follow our suggestion to trade one share of stock and to focus on their win rate. Having a steady source of income during this stage is very important. Focus on your “real job” and don’t get distracted by trading. You will need that steady income because you will not make any money trading for a long time (and you shouldn’t try to). Besides, trading might not be right for you. In the future, you will know if trading professionally is viable. The first sign that it might be right for you is that you eat, breathe and sleep charts. It’s all you can think about and you never miss an opportunity to learn. Your first goal is to get your win rate consistently above 75%. This will take a couple of years and once you get there you starting to scale up from 1 share. From this point forward, you need to treat trading like a business and your goal is to never hang the “out of business” sign. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Starting_Your_Business">Starting Your Business</h2>
<p>There is no reason to go overboard with expenses initially. Just like our suggestion to trade small when you start, keep your expenses small. Make sure that this is something you enjoy and something that you can see yourself doing for the rest of your life. You don’t have to be a professional day trader, you could be an active swing trader. Managing a basket of swing trades is also a full-time job. Most pros adjust their trade duration based on market conditions so plan on doing both. In time, you will decide if you should end your trading journey or to commit to it. For those that continue, you have realistic expectations of how hard this is going to be. This is no longer a “game,” it is a business. Here are some things you should do along the way and some insights on what it’s like to be a professional trader. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Learning">Learning</h2>
<p>The first thing you need to determine is how and when you are going to learn. This is important from the very start. Videos, podcasts, social forums and books are great resources. Find a time and a place when you can concentrate on the lessons. Simply getting through the material is not enough. You have to study it and apply it to your trading. It’s important to take notes on the points that really hit home. If your surroundings are filled with distractions, you are likely to miss the important concepts. If your goal is to sample the content to determine if it’s worth your time, it’s fine if there is a little commotion around you. If the content is good, plan to go back and study it when you are in a nice quiet place. It’s critical to think about how you are going to apply these concepts when you are trading.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Office_Space">Office Space</h2>
<p>You also need a quiet, comfortable place to trade. Find a room that you can call your own. When the door is closed, “we don’t bother daddy (or mommy).” Remove any distractions and make this space your “trading cave.” Everyone needs to respect that you are working so make this clear. Your family members need to understand that this is not where you go to relax, this is where you work. You don’t have to spend a ton of money on your “cave” initially, but as you get more serious about trading, you should make it comfortable. Make sure the lighting is good. You don’t need an expensive computer. Most trading applications are fairly “light.” As you get more serious about trading, a $600 – $1000 computer will have plenty of power and for another $500, you can add a couple of 32″ curved monitors. It’s important that you have a broadband internet connection and cable is the most reliable. I suggest NOT using a WIFI router. An ethernet connection is best. Your “cave” is where you will write your daily trade logs and it could be where you do most of your studying. That’s why it’s important to create the right environment.</p>
<p>The point to these prior two paragraphs is that you need to think about this seriously. Trading is not something that you can take casually. The margin for error is paper thin. This is not something you can study when you are driving, between business meetings or when it’s your turn to take care of the kids. Since you still have a full-time job at this stage, you will need to monitor trades and alerts during the day on your mobile phone, but you should be doing all of your research the night before or early in the morning in your “cave.” People who try to make trading decisions from start to finish on a mobile app during a commute will not make good decisions.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Where_To_Put_Your_Money">Where To Put Your Money</h2>
<p>Choosing the right broker is also something that you should determine early on. Commissions will add up quickly and this cost should be your primary consideration when you choose one. I am not overly concerned with payment for order flow. I tend to use limit orders and I have not noticed a big difference in the stock fills between direct order routing and using a broker that receives payment for order flow. Where I have noticed a difference is when I am able to preference an options exchange. An option order that does not fill on one exchange will often fill on another. If I can’t get a fill on one exchange I will cancel the order and I will try another. Of course, you will pay extra to be able to preference the exchange, but if you can improve your fill by a nickel (or more) it will more than offset the additional cost. For futures there is always one primary exchange where the orders are routed so the commission per contract is what matters. Most brokers have excellent software (trading platforms) with a wide variety of technical tools. It’s really important to learn all of their offerings. That’s the only way you can make a true comparison. Know if they have any proprietary tools (searches, technical studies, hot keys, options analytics and order entry features). The user interface and the display are also important. Some firms offer research (earnings release dates, analyst ratings and news feeds). Here are some other considerations. What markets do they offer access to (stocks, options, forex, crypto, futures, foreign stocks, bonds and after hours markets). How “deep” is their “available to borrow” list. This will be important for those of you who short stocks. What is the margin interest rate they charge? Are there any extra fees for real-time data? Are there any account maintenance fees? How do they handle exercise and assignment for options? What margin requirements do they enforce for naked options and credit spreads (it should be the exchange minimum margin requirement)? How will you be notified of early assignments? What level of option trading will they approve for your account? How will you be notified if there is a pattern day trading (PDT) violation? How easy is it to reach support? I would test support out before you move all of your money over to a broker. When you need them the most, you need to know they will be there for you. Do they offer education? I believe that you will get an honest overview of the different brokerage firms from most trading forums. </p>
<p>As you become more serious about trading, you should invest in a really nice chair. You are going to be sitting for 10 or more hours a day. There are so many ergonomic chairs to choose from. Some people have kneeling chairs while others prefer to have a desk that allows them to sit or stand. What ever your preference, this is something to consider. You need to be comfortable. </p>
<p>We have not gone “overboard” with expenses, but it’s time to determine if trading is something you want to pursue long-term. You don’t need to make any hasty decisions. Keep your primary source of income as long as you can and only “go pro” when you are confident that you will be able to make the income you need and when your personal life allows for it. By this time you should be a consistently profitable trader and you should be ramping up your size. Trading becomes more difficult when it is your sole source of income. Some traders believe that it will become easier because they can focus entirely on trading. In reality, it becomes harder because there is no safety net (secondary income) and you’ve closed those doors. There will be fluctuations in income. Some of it will be performance related and some of it will be market related. In my <a href="https://oneoption.com/the-system/common-mistakes/think-in-terms-of-cycles/">Think In Terms of Cycles</a> article, I discuss market cycles. </p>
<p>These next items need to pay for themselves. If they don’t, get rid of them. I am talking about research, news feeds, searches, chat rooms and trading systems. These monthly expenses can add up quickly. Option Stalker Pro is a software program I developed and it is fairly expensive. It was designed to trade this system. If the searches, proprietary indicators, trade signals, alerts and automated trendlines don’t help you find, enter and exit trades, get rid of it. You need to track all of these expenses because you will write them off against your trading income. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Life_Of_A_Professional_Trader">Life Of A Professional Trader</h2>
<p>Let’s talk about what it’s like to be a professional trader. You are isolated and you will be spending many hours a day alone. I spent my first 5 years without any outside contact and I missed interacting with people. I checked out a few chat rooms. Most of what I saw was a bunch of random ideas and junk that I had to sift through. I also didn’t know which (if any) of the traders were good and I didn’t know the basis for their trading decisions. This is shameless self-promotion, but I created a chat room that addressed these short comings. Our community only trades this system and the trades have to conform to it. Members are expected to study the system. If they post trades that don’t “fit,” they will be deleted and the member will be warned. This has not been a big problem because everyone wants to stick to the system. Now we can all look at a chart and know exactly why the posted trade made sense. It is laser focused during market hours and there is no small talk. Entries need to be posted on a timely basis and if you post an exit, there had better be an entry to go along with it. I don’t want to hear about someone’s 1000% winner if an entry was not posted. I also built a community where we help each other to become better traders and I reward traders for doing so. I think it is important to belong to a community of traders. You will help each other find trades. Some communities are free and some cost money. I do charge for mine.</p>
<p>This is a very sedentary job and your long-term health is one of the occupational risks. Your lower vertebrae degenerate faster because you are sitting all day and you can develop back problems. Doctors claim that sitting is the new smoking. You need to schedule time away from your screen. Even if it is 5 minutes per hour, it will keep you from straining your eyes. Make sure that you look away from your screens every few minutes and try not to fixate on them. After doing this for 30+ years, my eye sight is compromised. Some of that is age related and some of it comes from staring at a computer all day. Make sure that you take time to exercise. It is a great way to relieve stress and your body will need that movement after sitting all day. Even though I exercise, it’s hard to keep the weight off when you sit all day. If you struggle mentally, you will be isolated and the stress of trading can really take a toll on you.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Weekly_Routine">Weekly Routine</h2>
<p>My typical week starts Sunday afternoon. That is when I review the previous week’s logs, I look at my trades and I devise my game plan for the week ahead. I also record a YouTube video. I look to see how international markets are opening. I look for attractive trades and I set alerts on those stocks. I also set alerts on my positions above and below the current price. The alerts help me keep an eye on the positions because I am often distracted during the day running OneOption. The rest of the week is pretty typical. I start at 5:30 AM (3 hours before the open). I read the overnight headlines and I am looking at stocks that are moving pre-open. I am watching the futures trade and if there is an economic release before the open I want to gauge the reaction. I start writing my game plan for the day and it spans the next few days and sometimes a bit longer. Those are my pre-open market comments and I post them in the chat room. I know what the market is likely to do and the scenarios that would present the best trading opportunities. Once the market opens I spend the day searching for stocks, monitoring the market and setting alerts. My early activity is focused on taking gains on short-term swing trades. This is especially true if I get a nice move in the stock and if I am not expecting a big market move that day. For day trading I don’t trade the first 45 minutes very often. When opportunity arises I am entering trades and managing the exits. I am more inclined to take swing trades in the middle of the day once I am able to observe the price action for a few hours. After the close, I answer questions for about 30 minutes. I don’t eat during the day so I take a half an hour to eat dinner. This is pretty important. You should have your meals planned out ahead of time and when possible, prepared ahead of time. Make healthy choices. Remember that you are sitting all day so you need to do everything you can to stay healthy. You will be doing this for the rest of your life and your day-to-day decisions are cumulative. When you find your window of opportunity to eat, you need to be able to heat it up and return to trading. You can eat it at your desk. When you don’t plan your meals ahead of time, you will be hungry and you will grab junk food that is close at hand. There was a period of time where I did not plan my meals ahead of time. I would ransack the kitchen like a Tasmanian Devil. I was hungry and I needed something quick because I had “positions on!” You will gain weight quickly and you will feel like garbage if you don’t prepare your meals ahead of time. I like to eat after the close because I can relax. Intermittent fasting keeps me alert during the day and I don’t have energy “spikes and valleys.” After I eat, I go for a 90 minute walk outside. I never miss a walk and it doesn’t matter if it is 30 degrees below zero with a foot of snow. It clears my head. I tell myself that if I would go fishing in this weather, I can walk in it. I ice fish so that means I walk every day. Walking is actually new in the last 5 years. Previously, I would lift free weights and do cardio (Stair Master) for 90 minutes on alternating days. I would hit the gym six days a week at 5:00 AM. It made me feel alert, awake and energized. When I was in this routine, I did have to eat during market hours. I highly recommend exercise. I can’t walk in the morning because it is pitch black so I have to get my exercise later in the day. When I get back from my walk, I review my trades, I look at what’s moving after hours and I write my log. I am also looking for new trades. This takes two to three hours. Then I watch a game or mindless TV for an hour while I plan/prepare my meal for the next day. Friday’s I turn the lights off after the market closes. I eat and I go for a walk, but I stay out of my “cave.” This is just the trading part of my life. Building Option Stalker Pro and writing The System happens separate from all of that and I fit it in where I can. It is a busy life, but I go to bed tired and I sleep well. </p>
<p>I said this earlier and it is worth repeating. Starting a business is easy. Growing it is hard. Risk management is very important early on. In your first few years, you don’t want to take over-sized positions. You won’t always know the right set-ups and you are still learning. The key is to never hang the “out of business” sign. You can’t afford to take a devastating loss at this juncture. If you do, it is likely to be your last. When you had your primary income, you were able to shoulder more risk because you were getting paid from your full-time employer. You had the ability to earn back those losses. Now you don’t have that cushion. In time, your capital base will grow and you will have more experience. You will be better able to identify high probability opportunities where you can “size up.” You scale in and you add on technical confirmation. Your average cost will be lower than the current price and you can always scratch the position if it sours. It won’t happen often, but it is very important to be able to handle this mentally and this approach helps me. This is “next level” trading and you don’t need to worry about it for years. We all know when the market is not giving us much to look at. We also know when the backdrop is excellent. We don’t get many of these “runs” during the year, but we should expect a few of them and when they happen, you need to be aggressive. Early on you will be pressing hard and trying to squeeze everything you can out of your capital. As your base grows, you will not have to push as hard because a smaller percentage return on your capital will still generate the same income because your base is bigger. Trading will become much less stressful when you reach this point.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Taxes">Taxes</h2>
<p>You’ve decided to “go pro.” One of the first things you should do is to set up an LLC and to gain status as a professional trader for tax purposes. There are many advantages so make sure to do this. How you write down losses, wash sale rules and the Medicare tax calculations based on your trading income are just a few examples of where you will benefit. You should set up a 401K for your LLC and fund it with your trading profits. Your LLC will have a matching contribution and the annual amount of money you can put into the 401K is substantial. Max out your contributions each year and you will have a nice base to work with in just a few years. That account will eventually become one of your primary trading accounts. Unlike your other account, money goes into the 401K, but it doesn’t come out. It will grow quickly. Make sure that you set it up so that you can trade everything (stocks, futures, all options strategies, currency, crypto, bonds, real-estate….). All of your trading profits in this account will be tax deferred. I am not a licensed accountant, so this is all I have to say on the matter. You are a professional trader now so seek professional tax advice for your business. It should go without saying that you need to track all of your business expenses. There will be some home office write downs as well. </p>
<p>You will need to calculate your P&amp;L. There are many software programs that will download all of your trades and calculate the profit and loss. You will need to do this during the year and you will need to make estimated tax payments after each quarter. I take time off at the end of the year and I wind my trading down. The market is typically very dull. I like closing all of my positions before year end. Then, I start fresh at the beginning of the new year. My ending balance December 31st less my beginning balance January 1st tells me exactly how much I made that year. Every commission dollar, every exchange fee, SEC fee, assignment fee, debit interest expense and maintenance fee is accounted for in that number. This is not necessary, but it is what I have done since I started. I have found that the price action from December 26 – January 1 does not move much so I am not missing anything by not holding positions over that period. What happened the previous year (good or bad) happened in the previous year. Those books are closed and it is time to start the new year. Working from a “clean slate” makes me focus hard in January. I want to make good decisions and I want to start the year off on a good note. I am not encumbered by any “losing trades” that were carried over from the prior year. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Time_Off">Time Off</h2>
<p>Speaking of time off in December, you will have to schedule time off for vacations. Early in your trading career, you will not want to take time off for fear that you will miss a big move. You are counting on that income so you feel like you have to work every day that the market is open. I like to add a day before or after a major holiday. Typically, the market does not move much on either of those two days. If there are major economic releases on one of those days, pick the day that does not have a major release. These 4-day weekends will give you a nice break during the year and you will not miss much. Try NOT to be away during the FOMC statements. There are eight of them a year. The March, June, September and December meetings also coincide with triple witching (third Friday of those months when options and futures expire) so make sure to stick around for those. This adds to the volatility so you do not want to miss these weeks. The middle of August through Labor Day is another great time to take a vacation. The Fed is in recess along with Congress. Q2 earnings season has ended and the economic releases are light. The weather is great and the kids are getting ready to go back to school. Many traders take time off in August so the market is typically slow. Take the last trading week of the year between Christmas and New Years off. The kids are not in school and it is “family time.” Enjoy the holiday and recharge your battery.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Paying_Yourself">Paying Yourself</h2>
<p>It’s important to pay yourself. Take money out of your trading account each month and put it in your checking account so that you can pay your bills. The difficult thing about trading is that your income will not always be steady. Some of it will depend on how well you traded and some of it will depend on market conditions. You can address performance, but you can’t change tough market conditions. When you have a really good month, take some extra out of your trading account. This accomplishes two things. First of all, you will not feel as much pressure during months when the market doesn’t give you much to work with. Don’t trade for the sake of trading. When conditions are tough, you have to lay low. The second benefit of taking money out of your account is that you won’t be tempted to “ramp up.” Your confidence is high and <a href="https://oneoption.com/the-system/common-mistakes/think-in-terms-of-cycles/">the market moves in cycles</a>. There’s a good chance that you rode a trend and that it is likely to stall out. Early in my career, I would pretend that I just took a loss. That grounds me mentally and then I am cautiously trying to recover from it. My trade selections are better and I am less likely to get “sloppy.” When I have a big “run” a few times a year, I take a nice chunk of money out of the account. Again, I have less money to work with &amp; so I am more cautious. I use that money to pay taxes. These are just some methods I use to smooth out the “bumps in the road.” </p>
<p>Carefully track your expenses. Home office expenses, education, internet, chat rooms, news feeds, trading software and much more can be deducted from your income. If you use it for your trading, there’s a good chance you can deduct it. Just make sure to keep track of it and give those receipts to your accountant. </p>
<p>Health Insurance has become a major consideration. When I started as a “pro” over twenty years ago, it wasn’t cheap for a family of five, but it wasn’t outrageous like it is now. Ideally, you have health insurance through your spouse’s employer. Early on in your trading career, you need that security and your spouse’s job security is very important. COBRA can be expensive if they lose their job. If your spouse does not have health insurance and you have kids, the decision to “go pro” is much harder. My wife and I are over 60 and we are in good health. We are not eligible for Medicare yet. The best route for us to take is to have a very high deductible ($18,000 combined maximum out of pocket). This is catastrophic health insurance. If anything happens to either of us, we will hit the $9,000 individual “out-of-pocket” maximum right away. If something happens to both, of us we will hit the $18,000 maximum easily. Medical expenses are sky high these days so it doesn’t even have to be a major health complication. Our monthly premiums are $2000 and the copays are high. We could conceivably pay over $42,000 in health insurance a year if we are ill. If nothing goes wrong, we will still pay at least $24,000. This has become a major consideration for professional traders and chances are you will be buying your insurance through one of the state exchanges. If you are an insurance agent and you have a less expensive plan, don’t contact me. Write an article and post it in a Reddit sub where traders can see it.</p>
<p>It is always wise to have a second income. That could mean that you keep your salaried position for longer or that your spouse has a steady job with a reliable income. This takes so much pressure off of you. It is always wise to have a contingency plan before you “go pro.” If trading does not work out for you, can you get your old job back? If not, is your skill set in high demand? How secure is your spouse’s employment? How easy will it be for them to replace their income and to find another job? You also need to define a timeline and a maximum drawdown that is acceptable to you and your spouse. You need to discuss this with each other. Know when you are on track and when you are not. Be open about this and communicate often. A trading career is uncertain and it will create stress in your relationship. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="How_Much_Money_do_I_Need_">How Much Money do I Need?</h2>
<p>I saved one of the most common questions for last. How much money do I need before I can “go pro?” That varies from person-to-person based on your life. All of the things I’ve mentioned play a role. How viable is this? How long have you been trading? How many consecutive months have you hit a 75% win rate? Have you been scaling up with real money? Have you ever traded in a bear market? Ideally, you are making a profit. If your trade size is still small, don’t rush the decision to “go pro.” Know that once you commit, it is probably your last and only shot at this career. If you are producing consistent results for a half a year and you have $100,000 in trading capital and enough money saved to cover your monthly expenses for a year, you probably have the minimum you need to “go pro.” </p>
<p>What if I have enough money to cover my monthly expenses for a year and I trade with a “Prop Firm” that provides the capital? I honestly don’t know the answer to this question. Typically, you will have to put up some money and the first losses will be your capital. These firms have strict rules and they manage risk tightly. They might force you to liquidate positions that have gone against you and the position might have ultimately gone your way. Most “Prop Firms” will “teach you how to trade.” I don’t know how good they are at doing so. Prop Firms don’t have a vested interest in your long-term success. The longer you trade with them the more commissions they generate off of your account. They impose tight trading restrictions to make sure you don’t blow out too quickly (they want you in that seat as long as possible) and they want to make sure that you don’t lose more than your capital because then it bites into their capital. I can’t say if this is a good path. One thing is for sure. You had better have excellent trading skills before you to this route. I suspect that they will take many “green” traders that are not ready. If you have gone the “Prop Firm” route, let me know how it went. I would love to hear about your experience good or bad.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Conclusion_Trading_is_a_Business_Take_it_Seriously">Conclusion: Trading is a Business, Take it Seriously</h2>
<p>Life as a professional trader is complicated. It is not easy and that is why there aren’t many of us. The first requirement is passion. If this is something that you can’t stop thinking about, you are more likely put in the hard work that is required. That passion needs to span years, not months. You need to be self-motivated to find answers. Asking questions is easy and most people won’t dig to find what they need. Sometimes there is no answer and you have to conduct research. No one is going to tell you where to look, you have to develop those resources yourself. You have to be creative and explore new ways to trade. Your successes and failures need to be well-documented and you need to learn from those experiences. There is no finish line, you have to continue to read and learn. Being a professional trader is not just about “being your own boss.” It’s not glamourous and sometimes you are “lunch box Joe” grinding out a living. There is risk and uncertainty around every corner and during your journey you will do a lot of soul searching. This profession can place a lot of strain on your personal relationships. The earnings are inconsistent and you have to pay for your own health insurance. You sit all day so you are likely to use your health insurance if you don’t take care of yourself. If this profession doesn’t work out, there are no transferable job skills. There is time to “test the water” before you commit to this profession. If you are consistently profitable and you love trading, hold on to your secondary income as long as you can. Ease into this profession and treat it seriously. This is your one and only shot, so make it count. </p>
</section>
