---
title: <% tp.file.title %>
draft: false
tags:
---

<div class="bg-secondary">
<h1 class="py-5 ms-3 ms-md-4 my-0">Trade What You See and Not What You “Think”</h1>
</div>
<div class="d-flex align-items-center flex-wrap text-muted ps-3 ps-md-4 py-3 border-top border-bottom">
<div class="border-end pe-3 me-3">
<span class="badge bg-faded-primary text-primary">
Trading Realities </span>
</div>
<div class="fs-sm pe-3 border-end me-3">8 min read</div>
<div class="fs-sm">
2024-04-15 </div>
</div>
<section class="px-3 px-md-4 py-4">
<h4 class="wp-block-heading">This just in… you’re not that smart. </h4>
<hr class="wp-block-separator has-alpha-channel-opacity">
<p>Pete, I have a question, “The jobs report showed much greater growth than was expected and this means that the Fed will not cut interest rates for a long time. Those high interest rates are going to choke off the economy. Consumer debt levels are at all-time highs and default rates are rising. The yield curve is inverted and that has lead to a recession 100% of the time. An analyst who correctly predicted the 2008 financial crisis sees deflation on the horizon. That would cause a big market drop. Would this be a good time to buy longer term put options?”</p>
<p>Pete, I have a question, “XYZ just announced better than expected revenues and earnings and the stock is tanking. It trades at a lower forward P/E than other semi conductor manufacturers. I have their chips in one of my computers and I really like them. The stock has broken major support levels in the last two days so the IVs are high. Is this a good time to sell an out of the money bullish put spread?” </p>
<p>Pete, I have a question, “Elon Musk said that AI is going to eventually replace all workers. People will lose their jobs. When that happens there will be millions of people out of work and crime rates will go up. Is this a good time to buy Smith &amp; Wesson Brands as people buy guns to defend themselves? Would it also be a good time to buy Callaway since they will have more time to play golf?” </p>
<p>If I had a nickel for each of these I would be rich. I’ve tried to figure out why people do this. In some instances the person is clueless and in some instances the person is incredibly smart. This trading mistake spans the intelligence spectrum so it does not explain this behavior. I’ve concluded that there are many reasons and here are some that might explain it. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Outsmarting_The_Market">Outsmarting The Market</h2>
<p>The trader forms a market opinion and then they zero in on every article that conforms to their forecast. They will cite experts who correctly forecasted a major market move decades ago. It doesn’t matter that the expert has been wrong since then, only that they were right once and that they agree with what the trader believes will happen now.</p>
<p>People feel like they are smarter than the market. The big money just hasn’t figured out what I know so I will beat them to the punch. Some of these people might have some industry specific knowledge, some of them might have an MBA and some of them might just feel they know “everything.”</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Listening_To_Gurus_">Listening To “Gurus”</h2>
<p>Some feel that “Guru Lou” is smarter than the market. He is an analyst for a big firm. He looks good on TV and he sounds smart. He was right on crypto and now he thinks AI is cheap. These followers latch on to a theme that resonates with them and then they pile in regardless of what the chart is telling them. I’ve seen scores these “gurus” come and go since the 1987 crash. They got one moment right, they built a reputation on that one moment and they have been wrong ever since. </p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Dogmatic_Traders">Dogmatic Traders</h2>
<p>Some traders want to justify holding on to a losing position. They bought marijuana stocks when they were “hot” and now the bottom has dropped out. “That’s OK, people will want to smoke pot and this company will do great when other states legalize it.” They don’t take into account that many growers and distributors are entering the market and that profit margins are declining. They also don’t account for the fact that people can legally grow it in their homes or that there is still a black market for it. All they know is that they like smoking pot and that these stocks should do well. If they had just paid attention to the charts, they could see that the selling pressure was heavy.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="Contrarians_Optimists_Pessimists">Contrarians, Optimists &amp; Pessimists</h2>
<p>Some traders can’t join the trend because the stock or the market is “over-extended.” They lack the confidence to buy a new high and they just feel that as soon as they do, the bottom is going to drop out. Consequently, they search for reasons why this is a bad time to buy. </p>
<p>Some people want to make a killing on the next trend reversal. They are not going to be “the last person standing when the music stops.” They are not going to follow all of the “lemmings.” These same folks will take the other side of any conversation and they will debate everything. They are contrarian by nature. If you say black, they will say white. </p>
<p>Some people are born pessimists or optimists. The pessimists are called “perma-bears” and they are always looking for “Black Swan” events. The optimists are called “perma-bulls” and there is always a “silver lining.” The 100-year chart tells us that it is better to be an optimist, so error on that side if you can control this disposition. Long-term, optimists will be on the right side of the market if they give themselves enough time and they will generally live happier lives. </p>
<p>What about; the war, inflation, credit, AI, the internet, the election, a flash crash, PIIGS, illegal immigration, global warming, cancer, the debt ceiling, the bond auction, Chinese real estate, Iran going nuclear, shipping in the Red Sea, moly supplies, crypto, the union strike, the electric grid getting hacked, the decline in US literacy rates… the list goes on and on.</p>
<h2 class="wp-block-heading" id="The_Market_Is_Always_Right">The Market Is Always Right</h2>
<p>So what’s the solution? You need to realize that the market is always right and that you don’t know “Jack.” I started The System off with a look at fundamental analysis and why we can’t compete in that arena. Technical analysis is pure and it doesn’t lie. Price and volume reflect what the smart money is doing and our goal is to follow them. If anything we’ve discussed above plays out, we will see it in the price action. If a bear market trend is going to reverse, we do not buy when the market is still going down. We don’t even buy the first bounce because that could simply be a short covering bounce that will turn into a bearish flag and result in a new low. We wait for a tall bounce with long duration and then a higher low double bottom. Then we can start looking for a bearish trend reversal. </p>
<p>It’s important to read and to understand what is influencing the market. I conduct fundamental analysis and I encourage you to do the same. Be aware of what is happening around you, but follow price. If your suspicions are correct, you will get technical confirmation and then you can act. </p>
<p>Let me give you an example. In January of 2020, I started reading about how China was shutting down during their busiest time of the year (New Years). The second largest economy in the world was in a lockdown. This virus was serious and it had the potential to spread quickly based on the intense reaction by the Chinese. I wondered why the market was discounting this news. The market was at an all-time high and based on this development, we started to reduce our long positions. We missed that last leg of the rally and it continued well into February. I felt foolish at the time because I was overly cautious. I did not short based on what I thought was going to happen. If I had, we would have lost money and we would have been shaken out of those bearish positions. At the end of February 2020, I saw a very nasty round of selling and we exited the only bullish position. We did not short until we had a technical breakdown the following week. We waited for that confirmation and evidence that the “smart money” was reducing risk. </p>
<p>The market is always right. It is the ultimate discounting mechanism. Trade what you see and not what you “think.” People who feel that the market is wrong will be humbled. They will lose a lot of money and only then will they grasp the importance of this lesson. Some will learn to respect the market and they might have a fighting chance to learn how to trade. Others will conclude that the market is “broken.” They will continue to “outsmart” the market until they run out of money.</p>
</section>
